Reference Type	Authors, Primary	Title Primary	Periodical Full	Periodical Abbrev	Pub Year	Pub Date Free From	Volume	Issue	Start Page	Other Pages	Keywords	Abstract	Notes	Personal Notes	Authors, Secondary	Title Secondary	Edition	Publisher	Place Of Publication	Authors, Tertiary	Authors, Quaternary	Authors, Quinary	Title, Tertiary	ISSN/ISBN	Availability	Author/Address	Accession Number	Language	Classification	Sub file/Database	Original Foreign Title	Links	URL	DOI	PMID	PMCID	Call Number	Database	Data Source	Identifying Phrase	Retrieved Date	Shortened Title	User 1	User 2	User 3	User 4	User 5	User 6	User 7	User 8	User 9	User 10	User 11	User 12	User 13	User 14	User 15Journal Article	"Acevedo,Pelayo;Cassinello,Jorge;Gortazar,Christian"	The Iberian ibex is under an expansion trend but displaced to suboptimal habitats by the presence of extensive goat livestock in central Spain	Biodiversity and Conservation	Biodivers.Conserv.	2007	NOV	16	12	3361	3376	"biodiversity conservation;Capra hircus;Capra pyrenaica;livestock grazing system;habitat displacement;habitat suitability analysis;resource competition;CAPRA-PYRENAICA MAMMALIA;SPANISH WILD GOAT;SHEEP OVIS-ARIES;SPECIES DISTRIBUTIONS;LARGE HERBIVORES;SOUTHERN SPAIN;SIERRA-NEVADA;NATURAL-PARK;ABSENCE DATA;Biodiversity & Conservation;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	In this paper an updated distribution of the Iberian ibex (Capra pyrenaica, Schinz 1838) in the central Spanish region of Castile-La Mancha is shown. The species is present in 19% of the study region, and in areas not cited so far in the literature. A detailed analysis of habitat suitability was also carried out, applying a new methodology, Ecological-Niche Factor Analysis, which uses presence data to build a habitat suitability map of a given species. As livestock activity is quite intense in the region, the presence of a potential competitor, the domestic goat (Capra hircus), was included in the analyses. Factors affecting ibex relative abundance were determined by means of a nested stepwise multiple regression, where livestock presence/absence was the nested factor. The presence of livestock has a negative effect on ibex relative abundance, causing the ibex to select areas of poor, sparse vegetation, cultivated lands and forests, whereas in the absence of livestock, the ibex is mainly present in pasture-scrub lands and non-cultivated lands. Conservation implications of these results are discussed in the context of a Mediterranean region where extensive livestock grazing systems abound.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0960-3115	 	"Inst Invest Rec Cineget, CSIC, UCLM, JCCM, E-13005 Ciudad Real, Spain.; Cassinello, J (reprint author), Inst Invest Rec Cineget, CSIC, UCLM, JCCM, Ronda Toledo s-n, E-13005 Ciudad Real, Spain.; jorge.cassinello@uclm.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10531-006-9032-y	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Achotegui-Castells,Ander;Llusia,Joan;Hodar,Jose A.;Penuelas,Josep"	Needle terpene concentrations and emissions of two coexisting subspecies of Scots pine attacked by the pine processionary moth (Thaumetopoea pityocampa)	Acta Physiologiae Plantarum	 	2013	OCT	35	10	3047	3058	"Herbivory;Pinus sylvestris;Monoterpene;Sesquiterpene;Relict pine;Induction;HOST SELECTION;QUERCUS-ILEX;PHOSPHORUS AVAILABILITY;CATERPILLAR;PLANT;SYLVESTRIS;VOLATILES;DEFENSES;GROWTH;Plant Sciences ER"	"Mediterranean pine forests are often attacked by caterpillars of Thaumetopoea pityocampa (Lep., Thaumetopoidae), one of the most important defoliators in the Mediterranean region causing large economic losses and ecological effects. The needle terpene concentrations and emissions may play a key role in the defense of pines. We studied two subspecies of Pinus sylvestris, nevadensis (an endemic and relict subspecies) and iberica , with different levels of caterpillar attack in Sierra Nevada mountains (Spain). GC-MS analyses showed large total concentrations of terpenes (6 to 39 mg g(-1) of dry weight) in the needles of both subspecies under field conditions. Concentrations were 25 % higher in ""Non-Attacked Trees"" (NATs) of the iberica than in the nevadensis subspecies. The branches of NATs had terpene concentrations 20 % higher than those of ""Attacked Branches of attacked trees"" (ABs). Within attacked trees, the ""Non-Attacked Branches"" (NABs) also had terpene concentrations 20 % higher than those of ABs. Mainly alpha-pinene and germacrene D had higher concentrations in NATs and NABs than in ABs. Some terpenes had higher concentrations in NABs than in NATs, indicating possible systemic reactions. In subsp. nevadensis, the percentage of monoterpenes relative to total terpenes was higher in ABs than in other attack states. The rates of emission in nevadensis (standardized to 30 A degrees C) were ca. three times higher in ABs than in NABs and NATs. These results suggest that the lower terpene concentrations and high percentages of monoterpenes in ABs were produced by a combination of emission losses and terpene induction in response to herbivorous attack."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0137-5881	 	"[Achotegui-Castells, Ander; Llusia, Joan; Penuelas, Josep] CREAF, Cerdanyola Del Valles 08193, Catalonia, Spain. [Achotegui-Castells, Ander; Llusia, Joan; Penuelas, Josep] UAB, CEAB, CREAF, CSIC,Global Ecol Unit, Cerdanyola Del Valles 08193, Catalonia, Spain. [Hodar, Jose A.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Biol Anim & Ecol, Grp Ecol Terrestre, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Achotegui-Castells, A (reprint author), CREAF, Cerdanyola Del Valles 08193, Catalonia, Spain.; a.achotegui@creaf.uab.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s11738-013-1337-3	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Adjemian,Jennifer Zipser;Adjemian,Michael K.;Foley,Patrick;Chomel,Bruno B.;Kasten,Rickie W.;Foley,Janet E."	Evidence of multiple zoonotic agents in a wild rodent community in the eastern sierra Nevada	Journal of wildlife diseases	J.Wildl.Dis.	2008	JUL	44	3	737	742	"anaplasma phagocytophilum;California;fleas;Rickettsia rickettsii;rodents;ticks;Yersinia pestis;ANAPLASMA-PHAGOCYTOPHILUM;BORRELIA-BURGDORFERI;YERSINIA-PESTIS;UNITED-STATES;PLAGUE;INFECTION;Veterinary Sciences ER"	"This study aimed to describe the occurence of Yersinia pestis, Rickettsia rickettsii, Anaplasma phagocytophilum, and ectoparasites in a wild rodent community in the eastern Sierra Nevada. From May to September 2006, rodents were live-trapped, examined for ectoparasites, and blood was collected. All rodents were serologically tested for antibodies to Y. pestis, R. rickettsii, and A. phagocytophilum; in addition, blood samples and ectoparasites were tested by PCR to detect the presence of these zoonotic agents. Overall, 89 rodents, 46 fleas, and four ticks were collected. Antibody prevalence rates observed for rodents were 14% for R. rickettsii or antigenically related spotted-fever group rickettsiae, and 8% for A. phagocytophilum. No samples were positive for antibodies to Y. pestis. Positive PCR results included one yellow-pine chipmunk for Y. pestis (C-T = 32.8), one golden-mantled ground squirrel for R. rickettsii (C-T = 33), and one flea found to be co-infected with both R. rickettsii (C-T = 17) and A. phagocytophilum (C-T = 36). The results of this study provide evidence of multiple zoonoses overlapping within a single, located rodent community."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0090-3558	 	"[Adjemian, Jennifer Zipser; Foley, Janet E.] Univ Calif Davis, Sch Vet Med, Dept Med & Epidemiol, Davis, CA 95616 USA. [Adjemian, Michael K.] Univ Calif Davis, Dept Agr & Resource Econ, Davis, CA 95616 USA. [Foley, Patrick] Calif State Univ Sacramento, Dept Biol Sci, Sacramento, CA 95616 USA. [Chomel, Bruno B.; Kasten, Rickie W.] Univ Calif Davis, Sch Vet Med, Dept Populat Hlth & Reprod, Davis, CA 95616 USA.; Adjemian, JZ (reprint author), Univ Calif Davis, Sch Vet Med, Dept Med & Epidemiol, Davis, CA 95616 USA.; jadjemian@cdc.gov"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Alados-Arboledas,L.;Alcantara,A.;Olmo,F. J.;Martinez-Lozano,J. A.;Estelles,V.;Cachorro,V.;Silva,A. M.;Horvath,H.;Gangl,M.;Diaz,A.;Pujadas,M.;Lorente,J.;Labajo,A.;Sorribas,M.;Pavese,G."	Aerosol columnar properties retrieved from CIMEL radiometers during VELETA 2002	Atmospheric Environment	Atmos.Environ.	2008	APR	42	11	2654	2667	"atmospheric aerosol;columnar properties;volume size distribution;single scattering albedo;planetary boundary layer;Saharan dust;OPTICAL-PROPERTIES;SOUTHEASTERN SPAIN;ATMOSPHERIC AEROSOLS;HEAT-WAVE;DUST;AERONET;ARMILLA;NETWORK;SUN;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences ER"	During the 2002 summer, the VELETA 2002 field campaign has been carried out at the Sierra Nevada Massif, close to Granada in South-Eastern Spain. During the campaign, CIMEL CE-318 robotic radiometer has been one of the key instruments in the characterization of the atmospheric aerosol columnar properties. This kind of radiometers have been operated at Motril, a coastal location at sea level, Pitres (1200 m a.s.l.), located in the South slope of Sierra Nevada Massif, Las Sabinas (2200m a.s.l.), located on the north slope of the mountain range, and Armilla (680m a.s.l.), located in the valley. The principal feature of the locations is that they provide a strong altitudinal gradient. This work presents the evolution of changes followed by the atmospheric aerosol in the vertical column. Columnar aerosol properties have been derived from the CIMEL CE-318 measurements obtained at the four stations. In this sense, the combination of solar direct measurements and sky radiances were used to retrieve the aerosol columnar size distributions by means of Nakajima's code. Marked changes in the atmospheric aerosol along the campaign have been explained in terms of the synoptic conditions. A detailed study of the columnar properties at the different places has been done. Changes in the spectral dependence of the single scattering albedo under the influence of different air masses have been discussed. The size distributions have been fitted to a bimodal lognormal distribution function model, and the associated parameters have been correlated with aerosol optical depth or Angstrom exponent. In some cases, it has been necessary to develop different correlations for cases affected or non-affected by the arrival of Saharan dust. In the case of Armilla (680 m a.s.l.) and Las Sabinas (2200 m a.s.l.), the small horizontal distance allow us to consider that both stations are representative of the same atmospheric column, a fact that has been used to analyse the daily evolution of the mixing layer in the north slope. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1352-2310	 	"[Alados-Arboledas, L.; Alcantara, A.; Olmo, F. J.] Univ Granada, Grp Fis Atmosfera, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Martinez-Lozano, J. A.; Estelles, V.] Univ Valencia, Grp Radiac Solar, E-46003 Valencia, Spain. [Cachorro, V.] Univ Valladolid, Grp Opt Atmosfer, E-47002 Valladolid, Spain. [Silva, A. M.] Univ Evora, Dpto Fis, Evora, Portugal. [Horvath, H.; Gangl, M.] Univ Vienna, Inst Expt Phys, A-1090 Vienna, Austria. [Diaz, A.] Univ La Laguna, Dpto Fis Basicas, E-38207 San Cristobal la Laguna, Spain. [Lorente, J.] Univ Barcelona, Dpto Astron & Meteorol, E-08007 Barcelona, Spain. [Sorribas, M.] INTA, Estac Sondeos Atmosfer El Arenosillo, Huelva, Spain. [Pavese, G.] CNR, IMAA, I-00185 Rome, Italy.; Alados-Arboledas, L (reprint author), Univ Granada, Grp Fis Atmosfera, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; alados@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.atmosenv.2007.10.006	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Alasaad,S.;Granados,J. E.;Cano-Manuel,F. J.;Meana,A.;Zhu,X. Q.;Perez,J. M."	Epidemiology of fasciolosis affecting Iberian ibex (Capra pyrenaica) in southern Spain	Parasitology research	Parasitol.Res.	2008	MAR	102	4	751	755	"SARCOPTIC MANGE;SPANISH IBEX;HEPATICA;SHEEP;Parasitology ER"	Between 1995 and 2006, we surveyed the presence of Fasciola hepatica in Iberian ibex (Capra pyrenaica) from Andalucia (southern Spain) by both necropsy (n = 2,096) and coprological approaches (n = 380). Most of the samples came from the Sierra Nevada mountain range (n = 1,884 and 267, respectively), and all positive cases involved animals from this location. The prevalence reached 0.53% by necropsy and 1.87% by faecal examination. Taking into account both diagnostic methodologies and the total number of animals affected (n = 14), we obtained a yearly prevalence of 0.7 +/- 0.3%. The infection with F. hepatica was found not to be related to host sex, climatology or to co-infection with Sarcoptes scabiei (the most important parasite affecting Iberian ibex, with a prevalence of 49.27 +/- 7.90% in the examined animals). The prevalence of fasciolosis decreased significantly during the period under study and this would be explained by an increase of ibex resistance to this fluke as a result of a reduction of the parasite abundance in the area and/or a reduction of the host infection rate. There was no statistical difference between the two diagnostic methods for the examination of fasciolosis during the period in which both methods were used. Therefore, examination of faecal samples as a non-invasive procedure may provide a useful approach for monitoring fasciolosis in wild ungulate populations. The results of the present study provided foundation for the effective control of F. hepatica infection in Iberian ibex.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0932-0113	 	"[Alasaad, S.; Zhu, X. Q.] S China Agr Univ, Coll Vet Med, Guangzhou 510642, Guangdong, Peoples R China. [Meana, A.] Univ Complutense Madrid, Dept Patol Anim 1 Sanidad Anim, E-28040 Madrid, Spain. [Granados, J. E.; Cano-Manuel, F. J.] Espacio Nat Sierra Nevada, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Alasaad, S.; Perez, J. M.] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, E-23071 Jaen, Spain.; Zhu, XQ (reprint author), S China Agr Univ, Coll Vet Med, 483 Wuhan St,Tianhe Dist, Guangzhou 510642, Guangdong, Peoples R China.; xingquanzh@scau.edu.cn; jperez@ujaen.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s00436-007-0830-2	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Alasaad,S.;Morrondo,P.;Dacal-Rivas,V.;Soriguer,R. C.;Granados,J. E.;Serrano,E.;Zhu,X. Q.;Rossi,L.;Perez,J. M."	Bronchopulmonary nematode infection of Capra pyrenaica in the Sierra Nevada massif, Spain	Veterinary parasitology	Vet.Parasitol.	2009	Oct-14	164	02-Apr	340	343	"Iberian ibex (Capra pyrenaica);Epidemiology;Muellerius capillaris;Cystocaulus ocreatus;Protostrongylus sp.;Dictyocaulus filaria;Spain;CHAMOIS RUPICAPRA-RUPICAPRA;NORTH-WEST SPAIN;SPANISH IBEX;LUNG;NEMATODES;NATIONAL-PARK;LARVAE;IDENTIFICATION;HELMINTHS;GROWTH;Parasitology;Veterinary Sciences ER"	The present investigation examined the prevalence and abundance of bronchopulmonary nematodes in 213 randomly hunted Iberian ibexes (Capra pyrenaica) (87 females and 126 males) in the Sierra Nevada mountain range in Spain between 2003 and 2006. Post mortem examination revealed an overall prevalence of 72% for adult nematodes (Cystocaulus ocreatus 44%, Muellerius capillaris 44%, Protostronsylus sp. 40%, and Dictyocaulus filaria 4%). The abundances were 13.45 +/- 3.97, 5.18 +/- 2.49, 6.36 +/- 2.16, and 2.27 +/- 0.46, respectively. Protostrongylid adults showed similar infection rates, which were statistically different from that of D. filaria. 20% of the examined Iberian ibexes were infected by three protostrongylid nematodes species, 24% of C. pyrenaica were affected by two protostrongylid species, while infestations with only one protostrongylid species were detected in 20% of the examined animals. The overall prevalence of larvae nematodes in the examined animals was 100%, and the overall abundance (number of the first stage larvae per gram) was 86.45 +/- 20.63. There was a high correlation between the two sets of data (adults and larvae). Results of the present investigation provided foundation for the effective control of bronchopulmonary nematode infection in Iberian ibex. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0304-4017	 	"[Alasaad, S.] Firat Univ, Dept Ecol & Sylviculture, Deir Ez Zor 3314, Syria. [Alasaad, S.; Perez, J. M.] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, E-23071 Jaen, Spain. [Morrondo, P.; Dacal-Rivas, V.] Univ Santiago de Compostela, Fac Vet, Dept Patol Anim Parasitol & Enfermedades Parasita, Lugo 27071, Spain. [Soriguer, R. C.] CSIC, Estac Biol Donana, E-41080 Seville, Spain. [Granados, J. E.] Espacio Nat Sierra Nevada, Granada 18071, Spain. [Serrano, E.] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Fac Vet, E-08193 Barcelona, Spain. [Zhu, X. Q.] S China Agr Univ, Coll Vet Med, Guangzhou 510642, Guangdong, Peoples R China. [Rossi, L.] Univ Turin, Dipartimento Prod Anim Epidemiol & Ecol, I-10095 Grugliasco, Italy.; Alasaad, S (reprint author), Firat Univ, Dept Ecol & Sylviculture, Deir Ez Zor 3314, Syria.; sameralasaad@hotmail.com; xingquanzh@scau.edu.cn"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.vetpar.2009.06.019	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Alasaad,S.;Soglia,D.;Sarasa,M.;Soriguer,R. C.;Perez,J. M.;Granados,J. E.;Rasero,R.;Zhu,X. Q.;Rossi,L."	Skin-scale genetic structure of Sarcoptes scabiei populations from individual hosts: empirical evidence from Iberian ibex-derived mites	Parasitology research	Parasitol.Res.	2008	DEC	104	1	101	105	"LANDSCAPE GENETICS;SOCIAL-BEHAVIOR;SPANISH IBEX;ECOLOGY;CONSERVATION;DISEASE;SPAIN;MANGE;Parasitology ER"	"The objective of the present study was to examine the extent of genetic diversity among Sarcoptes scabiei individuals belonging to different skin subunits of the body from individual mangy hosts. Ten microsatellite primers were applied on 44 individual S. scabiei mites from three mangy Iberian ibexes from Sierra Nevada Mountain in Spain. Dendrograms of the mites from the individual Iberian ibexes, showing the proportion of shared alleles between pairs of individual mites representing three skin subpopulations (head, back, and abdomen subunits), allowed the clustering of some mite samples up to their skin subunits. This genetic diversity of S. scabiei at skin-scale did not have the same pattern in all considered hosts: for the first Iberian ibex (Cp1), only mites from the head subunit were grouped together; in the second individual (Cp2), the clustering was detected only for mites from the abdomen subunit; and for the third one (Cp3), only mites from the back subunit were clustered together. Our results suggest that the local colonization dynamics of S. scabiei would have influenced the nonrandom distribution of this ectoparasite, after a single infestation. Another presumable explanation to this skin-scale genetic structure could be the repeated infestations. To our knowledge, this is the first documentation of genetic structuring among S. scabiei at individual host skin-scale. Further studies are warranted to highlight determining factors of such trend, but the pattern underlined in the present study should be taken into account in diagnosis and monitoring protocols for studying the population genetic structure and life cycle of this neglected but important ectoparasite."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0932-0113	 	"[Alasaad, S.; Soglia, D.; Rasero, R.; Rossi, L.] Univ Turin, Dipartimento Prod Anim Epidemiol & Ecol, I-10095 Grugliasco, Italy. [Alasaad, S.; Sarasa, M.; Perez, J. M.] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Jaen 23071, Spain. [Soriguer, R. C.] CSIC, Estac Biol Donana, E-41080 Seville, Spain. [Granados, J. E.] Carretera Antigua Sierra Nevada, Espacio Nat Sierra Nevada, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Zhu, X. Q.] S China Agr Univ, Coll Vet Med, Guangzhou 510642, Guangdong, Peoples R China.; Rossi, L (reprint author), Univ Turin, Dipartimento Prod Anim Epidemiol & Ecol, Via Leonardo Vinci 44, I-10095 Grugliasco, Italy.; xingquanzh@scau.edu.cn; luca.rossi@unito.it"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s00436-008-1165-3	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Alasaad,Samer;Granados,Jose E.;Fandos,Paulino;Cano-Manuel,Francisco-Javier;Soriguer,Ramon C.;Perez,Jesus M."	The use of radio-collars for monitoring wildlife diseases: a case study from Iberian ibex affected by Sarcoptes scabiei in Sierra Nevada, Spain	Parasites & Vectors	 	2013	Aug-22	6	 	242	242	"GPS-GSM-radio collars;Capra pyrenaica;Sarcoptic mange;Disease control;GENETIC-STRUCTURE;MITE;KENYA;MANGE;Parasitology ER"	Background: Wildlife radio tracking has gained popularity during the recent past. Ecologists and conservationists use radio-collars for different purposes: animal movement monitoring, home range, productivity, population estimation, behaviour, habitat use, survival, and predator-prey interaction, among others. The aim of our present study is to highlight the application of radio-collars for wildlife diseases monitoring. The spread of wildlife diseases and the efficacy of management actions for controlling them propose serious challenges for ecologists and conservationists, since it is difficult to re-capture (or simply observe) the same animal in pre-determined temporal interval, but such difficulty is overcome by the use of gps-gsm radio collars. Methods: In the present study we report, for the first time to our knowledge, the use of radio-collars in the monitoring of Iberian ibex affected by Sarcoptes scabiei in Sierra Nevada mountain range, Spain. Twenty-five moderate or slightly mangy animals were radio-collared between 2006 and 2013. Results: The radio-collars allowed us to confirm the presence of resistance to S. scabiei within Iberian ibex population. Twenty (80%) of the collared animals recovered totally from mange, while the disease progressed in the other five Iberian ibex (20% of the collared animals) and the animals died. The average estimated recovery time of the resistant animals was 245 +/- 277 days, and the estimated average survival time of the non-resistant Iberian ibex was 121 +/- 71 days. Non-resistant animals survived at least 100 days, while all of them died with less than 200 days. Sixty per cent of the resistant animals were recovered with less than 200 days. Conclusions: We report, for the first time, the successful use of radio collars for wildlife diseases monitoring using Iberian ibex/S. scabiei as a model. By using radio collars we documented that most of the Sarcoptes-infected Iberian ibex are resistant to this disease, and we estimated the average time for Iberian ibex recovering from mange infection and the average survival time of the non-resistant ones. We expect wider use of radio-collars for wild animals diseases monitoring, affected/not-affected animals interaction, and treatment efficacy, among others.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1756-3305	 	"[Alasaad, Samer; Soriguer, Ramon C.] CSIC, Estn Biol Donana, Seville 41092, Spain. [Granados, Jose E.; Cano-Manuel, Francisco-Javier] Espacio Nat Sierra Nevada, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Fandos, Paulino] Agencia Med Ambiente Agua, Consejeria Med Ambiente, Sevillam, Spain. [Perez, Jesus M.] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, E-23071 Jaen, Spain.; Alasaad, S (reprint author), CSIC, Estn Biol Donana, Avda Amer Vespucio S-N, Seville 41092, Spain.; sameralasaad@hotmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1186/1756-3305-6-242	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Alasaad,Samer;Jowers,Michael J.;Garrido-Garcia,Jose A.;Wandeler,Peter;Fickel,Joerns;Sanchez,Antonio;Soriguer,Ramon C."	Noninvasive molecular and morphological evidences for an undiscovered population of snow vole in Southern Spain	Mitochondrial Dna	 	2013	OCT	24	5	596	601	"Chionomys nivalis;mtDNA;owl pellet;Sierra Nevada;Sierra Penalara;Sierra Segura;RABBIT HEMORRHAGIC-DISEASE;BREEDING SUCCESS;SMALL MAMMALS;WILD;RABBIT;FOOD-HABITS;EAGLE OWL;DIET;DNA;SIZE;Genetics & Heredity ER"	Capturing wild animals can be time consuming and difficult or even impractical. Noninvasive sampling is potentially a cost-effective and efficient means to monitor wild animals, thereby avoiding the need of capture and disturb species in the wild. On the basis of the morphological and genetic analyses of owl pellet contents, a so far undetected European snow vole (Chionomys nivalis) population was discovered in the Sierra Segura mountain range (Southern Spain). The mtDNA sequence from the newly discovered haplotype was compared with sequences from vole populations of the Sierra Nevada and Sierra Penalara mountain ranges (Spain) and from Churwalden (Switzerland). The nine recovered haplotypes clustered in four distinct lineages according to their geographical origin. The vole sequence from the Sierra Segura owl pellet belonged to a new haplotype, constituting a new lineage. The evolutionary divergence between sequences from the Sierra Segura and other Spanish populations was higher than that among other Spanish haplotypes. The new snow vole haplotype from this new locality duplicates the number of occurrence sites of this critically endangered species in Southern Spain, which is of great interest for further conservation and management plans of the European snow vole in the most southwestern area of its entire distribution range.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1940-1736	 	"[Alasaad, Samer; Jowers, Michael J.; Garrido-Garcia, Jose A.; Soriguer, Ramon C.] CSIC, Estn Biol Donana, Seville 41092, Spain. [Wandeler, Peter] Univ Zurich, Inst Evolutionary Biol & Environm Studies IEU, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland. [Alasaad, Samer; Sanchez, Antonio] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Expt, E-23071 Jaen, Spain. [Fickel, Joerns] Leibniz Inst Zoo & Wildlife Res, Res Grp Evolutionary Genet, D-10315 Berlin, Germany.; Alasaad, S (reprint author), CSIC, Estn Biol Donana, Avda Americo Vespucio S-N, Seville 41092, Spain.; samer@ebd.csic.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3109/19401736.2013.772148	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Alvarez-Ortega,Sergio;Pena-Santiago,Reyes"	Nematodes of the order Dorylaimida from Andalucia Oriental, Spain. Nevadanema nevadense gen. n., sp n. (Qudsianematidae) from Sierra Nevada National Park	Nematology	Nematology	2012	 	14	 	249	264	"description;Labronema;molecular;morphology;Nevadanema fimbriatum comb. n.;Nevadanema uniforme comb. n.;new combination;new genus;new species;SEM;taxonomy;LABRONEMA-THORNE;Zoology ER"	Nevadanema nevadense gen. n., sp. n. is described from natural highlands in the south-eastern Iberian Peninsula and is characterised on the basis of morphological, morphometric and molecular (D2/D3-LSU rDNA) data, including SEM study. The new genus is mainly distinguishable by its rounded and offset lip region with amalgamated lips, odontostyle comparatively attenuated, guiding ring double, odontophore rod-like, female genital system amphidelphic, pars refringens vaginae present, and short and rounded tail. It is morphologically close to Labronema, from which it differs in the nature of the lip region and odontostyle. Two species of Labronema, namely L fimbriatum and L. uniforme, are transferred to the new genus.	"PT: J; PN: 2"	 		 	 	 	 				 	1388-5545	 	"[Alvarez-Ortega, Sergio; Pena-Santiago, Reyes] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Jaen 23071, Spain.; Alvarez-Ortega, S (reprint author), Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Campus Las Lagunillas S-N,Edificio B3, Jaen 23071, Spain.; saortega@ujaen.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1163/138855411X589309	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Anderson,M. Kat;Rosenthal,Jeffrey"	An Ethnobiological Approach to Reconstructing Indigenous Fire Regimes in the Foothill Chaparral of the Western Sierra Nevada	Journal of Ethnobiology	 	2015	MAR	35	1	4	36	"Indian burning;chaparral;ethnobiology;fire;Native Americans;Sierra Nevada;CALIFORNIA INDIAN TRIBES;MANAGEMENT;GROWTH;REPRODUCTION;PATTERNS;STORAGE;FOREST;Anthropology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics ER"	Ethnographic interviews and historical literature reviews provide evidence that the nine ethno-linguistic groups inhabiting the foothill region of the western slope of the Sierra Nevada relied on a variety of plants and animals from chaparral communities to meet their material needs and deliberately burned the chaparral to maximize its ability to produce useful products. The reasons for burning in chaparral are grouped into six ecologically-based categories, each relying on a known response to fire of the chaparral flora, community, or landscape. The densities of people in the region were high, and villages needed large quantities of chaparral-derived materials with specific qualities to make many cultural objects. Because the majority of chaparral-occurring species used as cultural resources by Native groups required frequent fire in order to exist in sufficient quantity, or to be useful, fires caused by lightning strikes were likely insufficient to meet needs. The authors posit that tribes employed intentional burning to expand the availability, abundance, and diversity of plant materials necessary for foods, medicines, and critical technologies and that they collected plants and animals from across a mosaic of periodically burned chaparral stands at different stages of ecological succession. Overall the evidence suggests that the burning of chaparral, as a major strategy for economic intensification and extensification, altered the natural fire regimes of the foothills by expanding the burn season, shortening the fire-return interval in specific areas, and enhancing the abundance and density of species that suited specific cultural objectives.	"PT: J; SI: SI"	 		 	 	 	 				 	0278-0771	 	"[Anderson, M. Kat] USDA Nat Resources Conservat Serv, Calif State Off, Davis, CA 95616 USA. [Rosenthal, Jeffrey] Far Western Anthropol Res Grp Inc, Davis, CA USA.; Anderson, MK (reprint author), USDA Nat Resources Conservat Serv, Calif State Off, 430 G St, Davis, CA 95616 USA.; mkanderson@ucdavis.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.2993/0278-0771-35.1.4	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Anderson,R. S.;Jimenez-Moreno,G.;Carrion,J. S.;Perez-Martinez,C."	Postglacial history of alpine vegetation, fire, and climate from Laguna de Rio Seco, Sierra Nevada, southern Spain	Quaternary Science Reviews	 	2011	JUN	30	13-14	1615	1629	"Sierra Nevada;Spain;Vegetation history;Pollen analysis;Climate history;Fire;Postglacial;LAST GLACIAL MAXIMUM;MEDITERRANEAN VEGETATION;ENVIRONMENTAL-CHANGE;IBERIAN PENINSULA;DANSGAARD-OESCHGER;SOUTHWESTERN SPAIN;LATE;QUATERNARY;MONTANE REGION;HOLOCENE;POLLEN;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	The Sierra Nevada of southern Spain is a landscape with a rich biological and cultural heritage. The range was extensively glaciated during the late Pleistocene. However, the postglacial paleoecologic history of the highest range in southern Europe is nearly completely unknown. Here we use sediments from a small lake above present treeline - Laguna de Rio Seco at 3020 m elevation - in a paleoecological study documenting over 11,500 calendar years of vegetation, fire and climate change, addressing ecological and paleoclimatic issues unique to this area through comparison with regional paleoecological sequences. The early record is dominated by Pinus pollen, with Betula, deciduous Quercus, and grasses, with an understory of shrubs. It is unlikely that pine trees grew around the lake, and fire was relatively unimportant at this site during this period. Aquatic microfossils indicate that the wettest conditions and highest lake levels at Laguna de Rio Seco occurred before 7800 cal yr BR This is in contrast to lower elevation sites, where wettest conditions occurred after ca 7800. Greater differences in early Holocene seasonal insolation may have translated to greater snowpack and subsequently higher lake levels at higher elevations, but not necessarily at lower elevations, where higher evaporation rates prevailed. With declining seasonality after ca 8000 cal yr BP, but continuing summer precipitation, lake levels at the highest elevation site remained high, but lake levels at lower elevation sites increased as evaporation rates declined. Drier conditions commenced regionally after ca 5700 cal yr BP, shown at Laguna de Rio Seco by declines in wetland pollen, and increases in high elevation steppe shrubs common today (Juniperus. Artemisia, and others). The disappearance or decline of mesophytes, such as Betula from ca 4000 cal yr BP is part of a regional depletion in Mediterranean Spain and elsewhere in Europe from the mid to late Holocene. On the other hand, Castanea sativa increased in Laguna de Rio Seco record after ca 4000 cal yr BP, and especially in post-Roman times, probably due to arboriculture. Though not as important at high than at low elevations, fire occurrence was elevated, particularly after ca 3700 years ago, in response to regional human population expansion. The local and regional impact of humans increased substantially after ca 2700 years ago, with the loss of Pinus forest within the mountain range, increases in evidence of pasturing herbivores around the lake, and Olea cultivation at lower elevations. Though human impact was not as extensive at high elevation as at lower elevation sites in southern Iberia, this record confirms that even remote sites were not free of direct human influence during the Holocene. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0277-3791	 	"[Anderson, R. S.] No Arizona Univ, Environm Programs, Sch Earth Sci & Environm Sustainabil, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA. [Jimenez-Moreno, G.] Univ Granada, Dept Estratig & Paleontol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Carrion, J. S.] Univ Murcia, Dept Biol Vegetal, Fac Biol, E-30100 Murcia, Spain. [Perez-Martinez, C.] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Anderson, RS (reprint author), No Arizona Univ, Environm Programs, Sch Earth Sci & Environm Sustainabil, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA.; Scott.Anderson@nau.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.quascirev.2011.03.005	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Andrade,L.;Gonzalez-Lopez,J.;Fenice,M.;Martinez-Toledo,M., V.;Pesciaroli,C.;Maza-Marquez,P.;Juarez-Jimenez,B."	Application of Response Surface Methodology (RSM) for Culture Conditions and Biomass Production of Psychrophilic Microalgae Isolated from High Mountains Lake During the ice-free Season	International Journal of Environmental Research	 	2014	SUM	8	3	799	812	"Biomass;Micro-Algae;Lake;Environment;CHLORELLA-VULGARIS;LIPID PRODUCTION;SCENEDESMUS-OBLIQUUS;MARINE-PHYTOPLANKTON;POPULATION-DYNAMICS;NITROGEN REMOVAL;WASTE-WATER;GROWTH;OPTIMIZATION;TEMPERATURE;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	"Many studies on cold environments have been developed over the past two decades. High mountain freshwater presents high variability of nutrients and chemico-physical parameters, showing variations of pH, oxygen concentration, metals and temperature throughout the year. National Park of Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain) (37 degrees 032 N 03 degrees 182 W), has almost 40 lakes that are reported to be both endemic and oligotrophic. However, very little information about their microbial diversity can be found in literature. In this work, a Response Surface Methodology (RSM) was used to find best nutritional conditions for the isolation of psychrophilic microalgae from La Caldera Lake. The results showed that best culture medium, was the Rodriguez-Lopez medium. (RL); data were adjusted to a quadratic prediction model reporting a biomass concentration over 600 mg/L at 10 and 20 degrees C. In this paper, the diversity of culturable freshwater microalgae in the La Caldera Lake was observed by PCR using specific primers for eukaryotic 18S rRNA genes. Samples were taken in early July and late Agust, 2011. In July presence of strains belonging to the Eustigmatophyceae, Bacillariophyceae, Trebouxiophyceae, Chlorophyceae and Scenedesmaceae families were found. In August, only microalgae from the Eustigmatophyceae, Trebouxiophyceae, Chlorophyceae and Scenedesmaceae families were found. An individual culture of each isolated strain was carried out. Microalgae S21 had phylogenetic similitude with Chlorophyceae, and showed best growth being biomass concentration in RL 393.73 mg/L and 128.52 mg/L at 20 degrees C and 10 degrees C, respectively. Moreover, specific growth rates (mu(max)), 0.25/h and 0.13/h at 20 degrees C and 10 degrees C, respectively, were detected for strain S21."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1735-6865	 	"[Andrade, L.; Gonzalez-Lopez, J.; Pesciaroli, C.; Maza-Marquez, P.; Juarez-Jimenez, B.] Univ Granada, Fac Farm, Dept Microbiol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Martinez-Toledo, M., V] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Microbiol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Fenice, M.] Univ Tuscia, Dipartimento Sci Ecol & Biol, Viterbo, Italy.; Andrade, L (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Farm, Dept Microbiol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; leoyako@gmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Antonio Delgado-Molina,Jose;Carrillo,Presentacion;Manuel Medina-Sanchez,Juan;Villar-Argaiz,Manuel;Jose Bullejos,Francisco"	Interactive effects of phosphorus loads and ambient ultraviolet radiation on the algal community in a high-mountain lake	Journal of Plankton Research	J.Plankton Res.	2009	JUN	31	6	619	634	"MICROBIAL FOOD-WEB;SOLAR UV-RADIATION;PHYTOPLANKTON COMMUNITY;TAXONOMIC COMPOSITION;SPECIES COMPOSITION;BALTIC SEA;NATURAL;PHYTOPLANKTON;INORGANIC NUTRIENTS;MULTIPLE STRESSORS;OLIGOTROPHIC;LAKE;Marine & Freshwater Biology;Oceanography ER"	Interactions among multiple stressors generated by global change exert cumulative effects on ecosystems. In order to identify the long-term interactive effects of ultraviolet radiation (UVR) and increasing atmospheric nutrient inputs (P-inputs) on aggregate (growth rate, chlorophyll a and abundance) and emergent (evenness and diversity) algal community variables, a 2 x 5 factorial experiment [two levels of light quality (+UVR, -UVR) and five levels of nutrient enrichment] was conducted using in situ mesocosms in a high-mountain lake in the Sierra Nevada (Spain) over a 70-day period. Addition of P suppressed and inverted the stimulatory UVR effect on the non-flagellate growth rate (mid-term scale). This interactive effect was propagated as increased harmful UVR effect on chlorophyll a and abundance across the P-gradient. Interestingly, P-pulse reversed the positive effect of UVR on phytoplankton evenness and diversity on the long-term scale. These findings support our hypothesis that the UVR x P interactive effect would favor a few UVR-tolerant rapid-growing species. We show that the algal community is acclimated to UVR-flux but not to high P-pulse. The loss of diversity and disappearance of mixotrophic flagellates may have important implications for the functioning of clear-water ecosystems.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0142-7873	 	"[Antonio Delgado-Molina, Jose; Manuel Medina-Sanchez, Juan; Villar-Argaiz, Manuel; Jose Bullejos, Francisco] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Carrillo, Presentacion] Univ Granada, Inst Agua, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Carrillo, P (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; pcl@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1093/plankt/fbp018	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Antunes,I. M. H. R.;Neiva,A. M. R.;Silva,M. M. V. G.;Corfu,F."	The genesis of I- and S-type granitoid rocks of the Early Ordovician Oledo pluton, Central Iberian Zone (central Portugal)	Lithos	Lithos	2009	AUG	111	03-Apr	168	185	"I-, S-type rocks;Microgranular enclave;ID-TIMS U-Pb ages;Fractional Crystallization;Magma mixing;Ordovician;U-PB AGES;LACHLAN FOLD BELT;MICROGRANULAR ENCLAVES;NORTHERN PORTUGAL;CENTRAL SPAIN;MONAZITE GEOCHRONOLOGY;HERCYNIAN GRANITOIDS;HOST;GRANODIORITE;MAGMATIC ENCLAVES;SIERRA-NEVADA;Geochemistry & Geophysics;Mineralogy ER"	The Early Ordovician Oledo pluton consists of four distinct granodioritic to granitic phase (G1-G4), which intruded a Cambrian schist-metagraywacke complex, but were themselves intruded by a Late Carboniferous pluton. ID-TIMS U-Pb ages for zircon and monazite from these granitic rocks indicate emplacements within a short period of time at 479-480 Ma. Granodiorite G1 is the most deformed rock with shear zones and deformation at the border. G1 and G3 contain fine-grained biotite tonalite and biotite granodiorite microgranular enclaves, which are darker and richer in mafic minerals than the host granodiorites. The geological, mineralogical, geochemical and Sr, Nd and O isotopic data show that tonalitic and granodioritic enclaves and host G1 are of I-type and were related predominantly by a fractional crystallization process. Least-square analysis of major elements and modelling of trace elements indicate that granodioritic enclaves and host G1 could be derived from the tonalitic enclave magma by fractional crystallization of plagioclase, grunerite, biotite and ilmenite. Granodiorite G2 is of hybrid origin. Most variation diagrams for granodioritic enclaves and host G3 granodiorite and their biotites show linear trends. Modelling of major and trace elements of granodioritic enclaves indicate that they result from mixing of relatively primitive granodiorite magma with magma derived from crustal melting. Tonalitic enclaves correspond to globules of a more mafic relatively primitive magma. Granite G4 has the most pronounced crustal signature and is of S-type. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0024-4937	 	"[Antunes, I. M. H. R.] Polytech Inst Castelo Branco, P-6001909 Quinta Da Senhora De Mer, Castelo Branco, Portugal. [Neiva, A. M. R.; Silva, M. M. V. G.] Univ Coimbra, Dept Earth Sci, P-3000272 Coimbra, Portugal. [Corfu, F.] Univ Oslo, Dept Geosci, N-0316 Oslo, Norway.; Antunes, IMHR (reprint author), Polytech Inst Castelo Branco, P-6001909 Quinta Da Senhora De Mer, Castelo Branco, Portugal.; imantunes@esa.ipcb.pt"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.lithos.2008.07.014	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Arabaci,M. Ozbey;Camero-Arranz,A.;Zurita,C.;Gutierrez-Soto,J.;Nespoli,E.;Suso,J.;Kiaeerad,F.;Garcia-Rojas,J.;Kiziloglu,U."	Detection of a large Be circumstellar disk during X-ray quiescence of XTE J1946+274	Astronomy & Astrophysics	 	2015	OCT	582	 	A53	A53	"accretion, accretion disks;stars: emission-line, Be;X-rays: binaries;pulsars: individual: XTE J1946+274;TIME-SERIES ANALYSIS;BINARY-SYSTEMS;NEUTRON-STARS;SAX J2103.5+4545;PULSAR;ABUNDANCES;TELESCOPE;ACCRETION;SPECTRUM;MONITOR;Astronomy & Astrophysics ER"	Aims. We present a multiwavelength study of the Be/X-ray binary system XTE J1946+274 with the main goal of better characterizing its behavior during X-ray quiescence. We also aim to shed light on the possible mechanisms which trigger the X-ray activity for this source. Methods. XTE J1946+274 was observed by Chandra-ACIS during quiescence in 2013 March 12. In addition, this source has been monitored from the ground-based astronomical observatories of El Teide (Tenerife, Spain), Roque de los Muchachos (La Palma, Spain) and Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain) since 2011 September, and from the TUBITAK National Observatory (Antalya, Turkey) since 2005 April. We have performed spectral and photometric temporal analyses in order to investigate the quiescent state and transient behavior of this binary system. Results. Our optical study revealed that a long mass ejection event from the Be star took place in 2006, lasting for about seven years, and another one is currently ongoing. We also found that a large Be circumstellar disk is present during quiescence, although major X-ray activity is not observed. We made an attempt to explain this by assuming the permanently presence of a tilted (sometimes warped) Be decretion disk. The 0.3-10 keV X-ray spectrum of the neutron star during quiescence was well fitted with either an absorbed black-body or an absorbed power-law models. The main parameters obtained for these models were kT = 1.43 +/- 0.17 and Gamma = 0.9 +/- 0.4 (with N-H similar to 2-7 x 10(22) cm(-2)). The 0.3-10 keV flux of the source was similar to 0.8-1 x 10(-12) erg(-1) cm(-2) s(-1). Pulsations were found with P-pulse = 15.757(1) s (epoch MJD 56 363.115) and an rms pulse fraction of 32.1(3)%. The observed X-ray luminosity during quiescent periods was close to that of expected in supersonic propeller regimen.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1432-0746	 	"[Arabaci, M. Ozbey; Kiziloglu, U.] Middle E Tech Univ, Dept Phys, TR-06531 Ankara, Turkey. [Camero-Arranz, A.] CSIC, Inst Ciencies Espai, IEEC, Fac Ciencies, Barcelona 08193, Spain. [Zurita, C.; Garcia-Rojas, J.] Inst Astrofis Canarias, E-38200 San Cristobal la Laguna, Tenerife, Spain. [Zurita, C.; Garcia-Rojas, J.] Univ La Laguna, Dept Astrofis, San Cristobal la Laguna 38206, Tenerife, Spain. [Gutierrez-Soto, J.] Univ Valencia, Dept Didact Matemat, Valencia 46022, Spain. [Gutierrez-Soto, J.] CSIC, Inst Astrofis Andalucia, E-18008 Granada, Spain. [Nespoli, E.; Suso, J.] Univ Valencia, Astron Observ, Paterna 46980, Valencia, Spain. [Kiaeerad, F.] Nord Opt Telescope, Santa Cruz De La Palma 38700, Spain. [Kiaeerad, F.] Stockholm Univ, Dept Astron, Oscar Klein Ctr, AlbaNova, S-10691 Stockholm, Sweden.; Arabaci, MO (reprint author), Middle E Tech Univ, Dept Phys, TR-06531 Ankara, Turkey.; mehtap@astroa.physics.metu.edu.tr"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1051/0004-6361/201425488	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Aranbarri,Josu K.;Gonzalez-Samperiz,Penelope;Valero-Garces,Bias;Moreno,Ana;Gil-Romera,Graciela;Sevilla-Callejo,Miguel;Garcia-Prieto,Eduardo;Di Rita,Federico;Mata,M. Pilar;Morellon,Mario;Magri,Donatella;Rodriguez-Lazaro,Julio;Carrion,Jose S."	Rapid climatic changes and resilient vegetation during the Lateglacial and Holocene in a continental region of south-western Europe	Global and Planetary Change	Global Planet.Change	2014	MAR	114	 	50	65	"Holocene;Multiproxy reconstruction;Vegetation resilience;Pinewoods;Aridity;Continental Iberia;SEA-SURFACE TEMPERATURE;CENTRAL EBRO BASIN;CHLOROPLAST MICROSATELLITE;MARKERS;CENTRAL IBERIAN RANGE;LAST GLACIAL MAXIMUM;NE SPAIN;PINUS-PINASTER;LATE PLEISTOCENE;ENVIRONMENTAL-CHANGE;SIERRA-NEVADA;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	"Palynological, sedimentological and geochemical analyses performed on the Villarquemado paleolake sequence (987 m a.s.1, 40 degrees 30'N; 1 degrees 18'W) reveal the vegetation dynamics and climate variability in continental Iberia over the last 13,500 cal yr BP. The Lateglacial and early Holocene periods are characterized by arid conditions with a stable landscape dominated by pinewoods and steppe until ca. 7780 cal yr BP, despite sedimentological evidence for large paleohydrological fluctuations in the paleolake. The most humid phase occurred between ca. 7780 and 5000 cal yr BP and was characterized by the maximum spread of mesophytes (e.g., Betula, Coorlus, Quercus faginea type), the expansion of a mixed Mediterranean oak woodland with evergreen Quercus as dominant forest communities and more frequent higher lake level periods. The return of a dense pinewood synchronous with the depletion of mesophytes characterizes the mid-late Holocene transition (ca. 5000 cal yr BP) most likely as a consequence of an increasing aridity that coincides with the reappearance of a shallow, carbonate wetland environment. The paleohydrological and vegetation evolution shows similarities with other continental Mediterranean areas of Iberia and demonstrates a marked resilience of terrestrial vegetation and gradual responses to millennialscale climate fluctuations. Human impact is negligible until the lbero-Roman period (ca. 2500 cal yr BP) when a major deforestation occurred in the nearby pine forest. The last 1500 years are characterized by increasing landscape management, mainly associated with grazing practices shaping the current landscape. (c) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0921-8181	 	"[Aranbarri, Josu K.; Gonzalez-Samperiz, Penelope; Valero-Garces, Bias; Moreno, Ana; Gil-Romera, Graciela; Sevilla-Callejo, Miguel; Garcia-Prieto, Eduardo] Inst Pirenaico Ecol CSIC, Zaragoza 50059, Spain. [Aranbarri, Josu K.; Di Rita, Federico; Magri, Donatella] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dipartimento Biol Ambientale, I-00185 Rome, Italy. [Aranbarri, Josu K.; Rodriguez-Lazaro, Julio] Univ Pais Vasco Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea, Dept Estratigrafia & Paleontol, Bilbao 48080, Spain. [Mata, M. Pilar] Inst Geol & Miner Espana, Tres Cantos 28760, Spain. [Morellon, Mario] Univ Complutense Madrid, UCM, Inst Geociencias CSIC, Madrid 28040, Spain. [Carrion, Jose S.] Univ Murcia, Dept Biol Vegetal, Murcia 30100, Spain.; Aranbarri, J (reprint author), Inst Pirenaico Ecol CSIC, Avda Montanana 1005, Zaragoza 50059, Spain.; josu.aran@ipe.csic.es; pgonzal@ipe.csic.es; blas@ipe.csic.es; amoreno@ipe.csic.es; graciela.gil@ipe.csic.es; msevilla@ipe.csic.es; eduardogpf@ipe.csic.es; federico.dirita@uniromal.it; p.mata@igme.es; mario.morellon@igeo.ucm-csices; donatella.magri@uniromal.it; julio.rodriguez@ehu.es; carrion@um.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.gloplacha.2014.01.003	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Aranda,V.;Oyonarte,C."	Characterization of the organic matter of soil surface horizons in selected Mediterranean environments using IR spectroscopy	Agrochimica	Agrochimica	2007	NOV-DEC	51	6	269	284	"HUMUS FORMS;LAND-USE;FOREST;DECOMPOSITION;DEGRADATION;Chemistry;Agriculture ER"	The study of the organic matter is essential in areas with high degradation risks like the Mediterranean climate environments. The aim of this work is to establish the effect of the parent material, climate conditions and vegetation type on the evolution of the soil organic matter in different Mediterranean environments as an essential step for assessing soil stability and indirectly the fragility of these ecosystems that are prone to erosion. Thirty-six soil samples of organic-mineral horizon were taken in unreclaimed soils from areas of great ecological value in South-East Spain with calcareous (Sierra de Cazorla-Segura-Las Villas Natural Park), acid metamorphic (Sierra Nevada National Park) and calcareous and volcanic substrata (Cabo de Gata-Nijar Natural Park), and beneath three vegetation types (natural forests, reforested forests and scrublands). Characterization of the soil organic fraction by IR spectroscopy showed relatively uniform results probably caused by similar climatic and Mediterranean environmental conditions. Nonetheless, humic substances in the surface horizons were better developed in the calcareous/volcanic area than the calcareous and acid metamorphic areas, with the latter showing the greatest differences. The acid environment soils of Sierra Nevada can be characterized as the least favourable for efficient humus development, with it then being more fragile in terms of conservation. The results also indicate some differences due to the type of vegetation on soil humus chemistry, with a more negative effect beneath reforested forests of Pinus in an edaphic acid environment. In general, it may be stated that the organic matter beneath scrubland and natural forests of Quercus are more decomposed than beneath Pinus and the humus is more evolved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0002-1857	 	"[Aranda, V.] Univ Jaen, Dept Geol, Jaen 23071, Spain. [Oyonarte, C.] Univ Almeria, CITE 2 B, Dept Pedol & Agr Chem, Almeria, Spain.; Aranda, V (reprint author), Univ Jaen, Dept Geol, Jaen 23071, Spain.; varanda@vjaen.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Arboleya,Maria-Luisa;Babault,Julien;Owen,Lewis A.;Teixell,Antonio;Finkel,Robert C."	Timing and nature of Quaternary fluvial incision in the Ouarzazate foreland basin, Morocco	Journal of the Geological Society	 	2008	NOV	165	 	1059	1073	"HIGH ATLAS MOROCCO;IN-SITU BE-10;SOUTHEAST SPAIN;CLIMATE-CHANGE;HYDROLOGICAL CHANGES;NUCLIDE PRODUCTION;IBERIAN PENINSULA;NORTHWEST;AFRICA;EROSION RATES;SIERRA-NEVADA;Geology ER"	The history of alluvial fan and terrace formation within a stretch of the Ouarzazate basin along the southern margin of the Central High Atlas is reconstructed using geomorphological and Be-10 terrestrial cosmogenic nuclide (TCN) methods. Alluvial fan and terrace incision was controlled partially by a drop in base level during the Pliocene or early Pleistocene as the outlet channel, the Draa river, progressively cut through the Anti-Atlas to the south of the Ouarzazate foreland basin, the drainage of which started to become external after a long period of internal drained conditions. The alluvial fans and terrace surfaces have abandonment ages that date to at least the past four glacial cycles. Their formation was strongly modulated by climate on glacial-interglacial time scales as base level dropped. This demonstrates a strong climatic control on sediment transfer in other intracontinental mountain belts. Furthermore, these data show that mean rates of fluvial incision in this region range between 0.3 and 1.0 mm a(-1) for the latter part of the Quaternary. This study provides the first comprehensive TCN chronology for the Atlas Mountains, and it illustrates the applicability and limitations of TCN methods.	"PT: J; PN: 6"	 		 	 	 	 				 	0016-7649	 	"[Arboleya, Maria-Luisa; Babault, Julien; Teixell, Antonio] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Dept Geol, E-08193 Barcelona, Spain. [Owen, Lewis A.] Univ Cincinnati, Dept Geol, Cincinnati, OH 45221 USA. [Finkel, Robert C.] Lawrence Livermore Natl Lab, Ctr Accelerator Mass Spectrometry, Livermore, CA 92521 USA.; Arboleya, ML (reprint author), Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Dept Geol, E-08193 Barcelona, Spain.; MariaLuisa.Arboleya@uab.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1144/0016-76492007-151	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Ari Noriega,Jorge;Solis,Cesil;Garcia,Hector;Murillo-Ramos,Leidys;Manuel Renjifo,Juan;Eliecer Olarte,Jorge"	Dung beetles (Coleoptera: Scarabaeinae) from the Caribbean Region of Colombia	Caldasia	 	2013	 	35	2	465	477	"Caribbean Arid Belt;diversity;endemism;altitudinal variation;Scarabaeidae;DIGITONTHOPHAGUS-GAZELLA COLEOPTERA;SANTA-MARTA;GENERA;Plant Sciences;Science & Technology - Other Topics;Zoology ER"	"The subfamily Scarabaeinae (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) is an important group in ecosystems because of their role in nutrient recycling. Studies on the diversity of Scarabaeinae in Colombia are available for certain biogeographic regions. However, some areas such as the Caribbean region are still poorly studied. In an attempt to fill this gap in the knowledge, a complete revision of fauna is presented based on the study of dung beetle species deposited in 16 national entomological collections and from literature records. A total of 90 species belonging to 24 genera in 6 tribes were found. Twenty species were newly recorded for La Guajira, 18 for Sucre, 11 for Magdalena, 9 for Bolivar, 9 for Cordoba, 3 for Atlantico and 2 for Cesar. The department with the highest richness is Magdalena, probably because it is the best sampled throughout its altitude gradient. When the species composition is analyzed, the Caribbean region presents scarce endemism except for the high lands of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta. The genus Onthophagus is the most diverse in the region; the species with the broadest altitude range is Ontherus sanctaemartae, found from 700 to 2500 m above sea level. The species composition of the Caribbean region is homogenous in the lowlands, showing a strong affinity with the biogeographic region of Choco. Four different altitude clusters were recognized: lowlands (0-500 m), high hills (>500-900 m), subandean-andean zone (>900 to 2500 m) and high mountains (>2500 m). An increase in the homogeneity is likely expected with further sampling. Finally, it is essential to intensify the sampling in this region, especially in the isolate mountain systems."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0366-5232	 	"[Ari Noriega, Jorge] Univ Los Andes, Lab Zool & Ecol Acuat LAZOEA, Bogota, Colombia. [Solis, Cesil] Univ Atlantico, Barranquilla, Colombia. [Garcia, Hector] Univ Magdalena, Herbario UTMC, Santa Marta, Colombia. [Murillo-Ramos, Leidys] Univ Cordoba, Monteria, Colombia. [Manuel Renjifo, Juan] Univ Magdalena, Santa Marta, Colombia. [Eliecer Olarte, Jorge] Univ Los Llanos, Villavicencio, Colombia.; Noriega, JA (reprint author), Univ Los Andes, Lab Zool & Ecol Acuat LAZOEA, Bogota, Colombia.; jnorieg@hotmail.com; cesilsolis@yahoo.com; coleopterocoprofago@yahoo.es; leimurillo87@hotmail.com; juanrenjifo@yahoo.com; jorge.olarteprada@gmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Arias,Maria Sol;Moreno,Virginia;Sarasa,Mathieu;Paz-Silva,Adolfo;Sanchez-Andrade,Rita;Morrondo,Patrocinio;Diez-Banos,Pablo;Granados,Jose E.;Sanchezjj,Antonio;Perez,Jeusus M."	Reliability of an ELISA Test for Diagnosing Oestrosis in Iberian Ibex	Journal of Parasitology	J.Parasitol.	2014	APR	100	2	235	238	"OVIS LINNE 1761;ESTRUS-CAUCASICUS GRUNIN;CAPRA-PYRENAICA MAMMALIA;FASCIOLA-HEPATICA;BIGHORN SHEEP;SPANISH IBEX;1948 DIPTERA;OESTRIDAE;ANTIBODIES;ARTIODACTYLA;Parasitology ER"	"Oestrosis is one of the most prevalent parasitosis affecting the Iberian ibex, Capra pyrenaica. To date, both the diagnosis of oestrosis and the determination of the intensity of parasitism require the use of invasive methods (necropsy), which necessarily limit research possibilities. We analyzed the immune humoral response (IgM and IgG) against Oestrus ovis L. excretory/secretory larval antigens in 32 sera taken from Iberian ibex from the Sierra Nevada Natural Space (southern Spain). Three antigens were collected: L1OES (from L1 larvae), L2OES (L2), and L3OES (L3). Necropsy was considered as the gold standard. The percentage of ibexes harboring Oestrus spp. larvae was 88%, the mean intensity of parasitism being 16.96 +/- 14.96 larvae per parasitized host (range: 2-52). In our sample, first-instar larvae (L1) were found in 9% of ibexes, while 69% of hosts carried L2 larvae and 88% L3 larvae. Positive correlations between L1 and L2 numbers, and between L2 and L3 numbers were detected. The best results with the immunoenzymatic assay were obtained using IgG antibodies against the L1OES antigens (specificity = 89%; sensitivity = 100%; positive predictive value = 100%; negative predictive value = 57%). The IgG seroprevalence against L1OES was 78%. Thus, the analysis of IgG antibodies against antigens collected from L1 O. ovis larvae would seem to be a noninvasive method for reliably diagnosing oestrosis in naturally infested Iberian ibex. Nevertheless, additional immunological and methodological advances are still required because false positive and false negative results still represent a non-negligible part of the results of the ELISA tests."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0022-3395	 	"[Arias, Maria Sol; Paz-Silva, Adolfo; Sanchez-Andrade, Rita; Morrondo, Patrocinio; Diez-Banos, Pablo] Univ Santiago Compostela, Fac Vet, Dept Parasitol & Enfermedades Parasitarias, E-27002 Lugo, Spain. [Moreno, Virginia; Perez, Jeusus M.] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, E-23701 Jaen, Spain. [Sarasa, Mathieu] Federat Natl Chasseurs, F-92136 Issy Les Moulineaux, France. [Sanchezjj, Antonio] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Expt, E-23071 Jaen, Spain.; Perez, JM (reprint author), Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Campus Las Lagunillas, E-23701 Jaen, Spain.; jperez@ujaen.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1645/13-190.1	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Azanon,J. M.;Galve,J. P.;Perez-Pena,J. V.;Giaconia,F.;Carvajal,R.;Booth-Rea,G.;Jabaloy,A.;Vazquez,M.;Azor,A.;Roldan,F. J."	Relief and drainage evolution during the exhumation of the Sierra Nevada (SE Spain): Is denudation keeping pace with uplift?	Tectonophysics	Tectonophysics	2015	Nov-16	663	 	19	32	"Denudation rates;Unroofing processes;Drainage network analysis;Uplift pattern mapping;CURRENT PLATE MOTIONS;APATITE FISSION-TRACK;BETIC CORDILLERA;SOUTHERN;SPAIN;ACTIVE TECTONICS;FILABRIDE COMPLEX;RIVER INCISION;EXTENSIONAL;TECTONICS;LANDSCAPE EVOLUTION;CENTRAL APENNINES;Geochemistry & Geophysics ER"	We have performed a geomorphic analysis of the Sierra Nevada, the highest range of the Betic Cordillera (SE Spain), with the aim to elucidate its late Miocene to present-day exhumation history. The qualitative and quantitative analysis is based on filtered topography, local relief, swath-profile analysis, anomalies on stream orientation, bulk erosion volume, hypsometry, and steepness index (k(sn)). All these parameters are intimately linked to river incision and development of drainage pattern, having been calculated to assess the role of folding and faulting on the evolution of the Sierra Nevada. Moreover, uplift rates in the core of the Sierra Nevada have been deduced from an extrapolation of the position of Late Tortonian to Pliocene coastline deposits. These data have been compared to apatite (U-Th)/He, fission-track and Be-10 cosmogenic data from SE Spain in order to evaluate the consistency among uplift, thermal histories and denudation rates. Our preferred tectonic scenario is one that favors fast exhumation of the western Sierra Nevada in a NW SE overall compressive setting produced by the convergence between the Nubia and Africa plates. Sub-perpendicular to this compression, a westward 4 mm/year extensional hanging-wall displacement promotes uplift and unroofing of the western part of Sierra Nevada. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	"PT: J; SI: SI"	 		 	 	 	 				 	0040-1951	 	"[Azanon, J. M.; Galve, J. P.; Perez-Pena, J. V.; Giaconia, F.; Carvajal, R.; Booth-Rea, G.; Jabaloy, A.; Azor, A.] Univ Granada, Dept Geodinam, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Azanon, J. M.; Booth-Rea, G.] CSIC UGR, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra, Granada, Spain. [Perez-Pena, J. V.] Univ Granada, Inst Andaluz Geofis, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Vazquez, M.] Univ Chile, Andean Geothermal Ctr Excellence CEGA, Santiago, Chile. [Vazquez, M.] Univ Chile, Dept Geol, Santiago, Chile. [Roldan, F. J.] Inst Geol & Minero Espana, Granada, Spain.; Azanon, JM (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Geodinam, Campus Fuentenueva, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jazanon@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.tecto.2015.06.015	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Azanon,J. M.;Perez-Pena,J. V.;Giaconia,F.;Booth-Rea,G.;Martinez-Martinez,J. M.;Rodriguez-Peces,M. J."	Active tectonics in the central and eastern Betic Cordillera through morphotectonic analysis: the case of Sierra Nevada and Sierra Alhamilla	Journal of Iberian Geology	 	2012	 	38	1	225	238	"Betic Cordillera;active tectonics;drainage networks;tectonic geomorphology;STRIKE-SLIP FAULTS;SE SPAIN;SOUTHERN SPAIN;EXTENSIONAL DETACHMENTS;PALEOSTRESS ANALYSIS;SOUTHEASTERN BETICS;PLATE BOUNDARY;RIVER;INCISION;GRANADA BASIN;MURCIA FAULT;Geology ER"	Quaternary activity of folds and faults can be assessed by the analysis of drainage network and the evaluation of geomorphic indexes. These analyses are especially productive in semiarid areas where tectonic rates are low-to-moderate and Quaternary dating is limited. In this work, we have revisited the most relevant GIS-based methodologies used to assess tectonic activity by using morphometric analyses and we discuss the tectonic implications in two key areas of the central and eastern Betic Cordillera (Sierra Nevada and Sierra Alhamilla regions). In the Sierra Nevada area, the use of geomorphic indexes in the mountain range and in the neighboring Granada and Guadix-Baza basins suggests that all are part of the same SW-directed extensional system. The Granada basin (except in its NE border) subsided during the Late Pleistocene as it is located in the hanging wall of the extensional system. On the other hand, the Sierra Nevada mountain range, the NE border of the Granada basin and the Guadix-Baza basin are located in the active uplifted foot wall of the system. Thus, the higher fluvial incision rates in the Guadix-Baza basin can be directly correlated with the most recent uplift history of Sierra Nevada mountain range. In the Sierra Alhamilla region, a geomorphic study shows Late Pleistocene activity along the North Alhamilla Reverse Fault and the dextral transpressive South Gafarillos Fault, two segments of the Polopos Fault Zone, previously considered as an inactive fault.	"PT: J; SI: SI"	 		 	 	 	 				 	1698-6180	 	"[Azanon, J. M.; Perez-Pena, J. V.; Booth-Rea, G.; Martinez-Martinez, J. M.] Univ Granada, Dept Geodinam, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Azanon, J. M.; Giaconia, F.; Booth-Rea, G.; Martinez-Martinez, J. M.] Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra UGR CSIC, Granada, Spain. [Rodriguez-Peces, M. J.] Univ Complutense Madrid, Dept Geodinam, E-28040 Madrid, Spain.; Azanon, JM (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Geodinam, Campus Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jazanon@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.5209/rev_JIGE.2012.v38.n1.39214	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Azor,Jairo S.;Santos,Xavier;Pleguezuelos,Juan M."	Conifer-plantation thinning restores reptile biodiversity in Mediterranean landscapes	Forest Ecology and Management	For.Ecol.Manage.	2015	Oct-15	354	 	185	189	"Conifer plantations;Logging;Reptile community;Biodiversity;Forest thinning;MAINTAINING BIODIVERSITY;SILVICULTURAL MANAGEMENT;SPATIAL;HETEROGENEITY;PRESCRIBED FIRE;SMALL MAMMALS;FORESTS;CONSERVATION;AMPHIBIANS;ABUNDANCE;COMMUNITIES;Forestry ER"	Habitat loss and transformation are the greatest threats to biodiversity. In the Mediterranean Basin, planting pines has been a widespread practice that has transformed and degraded natural habitats. Understanding the response of living organisms to these anthropogenic disturbances and their management is essential for the conservation of biodiversity. Reforestation in Spain until the end of the 20th century was conducted primarily with Pinus species at unnaturally high densities. We have analyzed the response of a reptile community to thinning management in pine plantations within the Sierra Nevada National Park (SE Spain). Surveyed plots covered a gradient of tree densities (according treatments) from unlogged plots, 50% logged trees, 66% logged trees, and surrounding areas of open landscape with sparse trees. Four replicates (plots) were considered per treatment, with 4 visits per plot. In each plot, we measured three reptile community metrics, species richness, abundance, and Pielou's evenness. We hypothesize that reptile metrics will increase with the reduction of pine density and canopy, and an increase of solar radiation. Our results showed a negligible response after a 50% thinning, but a significant response of the reptile community after a 66% reduction. This study demonstrates that intense logging in pine plantations restores reptile diversity in the Mediterranean Basin. This is intended to serve as a model for forest management to restore biodiversity in this region. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0378-1127	 	"[Azor, Jairo S.; Pleguezuelos, Juan M.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Santos, Xavier] Univ Porto, Ctr Invest Biodiversidade & Recursos Genet, CIBIO InBIO, P-4485661 Vairao, Portugal.; Santos, X (reprint author), Univ Porto, Ctr Invest Biodiversidade & Recursos Genet, CIBIO InBIO, P-4485661 Vairao, Portugal.; xsantossantiro@gmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.foreco.2015.06.020	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Bagne,Karen E.;Purcell,Kathryn L."	Short-Term Responses of Birds to Prescribed Fire in Fire-Suppressed Forests of California	Journal of Wildlife Management	J.Wildl.Manage.	2011	JUL	75	5	1051	1060	"avian ecology;birds;fire suppression;forest;Joseph Grinnell;prescribed fire;Sierra Nevada;PONDEROSA PINE;CONIFER FORESTS;SIERRA-NEVADA;BURN SEVERITY;UNITED-STATES;POPULATIONS;ABUNDANCE;COMMUNITIES;WILDFIRES;SELECTION;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Zoology ER"	Prescribed fire is one tool for restoring fire-suppressed forests, but application of fire during spring coincides with breeding and arrival of migrant birds. We examined effects of low-severity prescribed fires on counts of birds in a managed forest in the Sierra Nevada of California immediately, 1 year, and 3-6 years after fire was applied in spring. Of 26 species analyzed, counts of 3 species increased after fire (Pacific-slope flycatcher [Empidonax difficilis], brown creeper [Certhia americana], and American robin [Turdus migratorius]), and 6 species decreased after fire (Anna's hummingbird [Calypte anna], Hutton's vireo [Vireo huttoni], warbling vireo [Vireo gilvus], golden-crowned kinglet [Regulus satrapa], Nashville warbler [Vermivora ruficapilla], hermit warbler [Dendroica occidentalis]). Black-throated gray warbler (Dendroica nigrescens) increased in the first year following fire but decreased 3-6 years after fire. When grouped into guilds, habitat association and foraging guild best explained responses to fire, with the greatest changes occurring for oak-associated species (negative), riparian-associated species (positive), aerial foragers (positive), and bark foragers (positive). Lastly, when we compared our counts to those collected during the 1910s, changes were consistent with those predicted from fire suppression and species' affinity for burned forests, suggesting that results from contemporary fire studies should be interpreted within an ecological context that includes effects of fire suppression. We found that low-severity prescribed fires applied in spring served to drive the bird community towards pre-suppression conditions. (C) 2011 The Wildlife Society.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0022-541X	 	"[Bagne, Karen E.] Univ Calif Riverside, Dept Biol, Riverside, CA 92521 USA. [Bagne, Karen E.; Purcell, Kathryn L.] US Forest Serv, USDA, Sierra Nevada Res Ctr, Fresno, CA 93710 USA.; Bagne, KE (reprint author), US Forest Serv, USDA, Rocky Mt Res Stn, Albuquerque, NM 87102 USA.; kbagne@gmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1002/jwmg.128	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Bahrami,Shahram	Tectonic controls on the morphometry of alluvial fans around Danehkhoshk anticline, Zagros, Iran	Geomorphology	Geomorphology	2013	Jan-01	180	 	217	230	"Alluvial fans;Tectonic activity;Entrenchment;Morphometry;Danehkhoshk anticline;Zagros mountains;BASE-LEVEL CHANGE;ACTIVE TECTONICS;DEATH-VALLEY;SEQUENCE DEVELOPMENT;CLIMATIC CONTROLS;GPS MEASUREMENTS;SOUTHEAST SPAIN;SIERRA-NEVADA;FOLD GROWTH;SE SPAIN;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	Alluvial fans are important landforms where their morphology and morphometry reflect changes in tectonic, climate, base level, and drainage basin characteristics. Along the margins of tectonically active mountain ranges like the Zagros Mountains, alluvial fans are generally assumed to act as useful landforms for identifying the level of tectonic activity. The purpose of this paper is to evaluate the relationship between active tectonics and morphometric characteristics of alluvial fans around Danehkhoshk anticline in the Simply Folded Belt of Zagros. Morphometric characteristics of alluvial fans, such as area (FA), slope (SF) length of base (BF), width/length ratio (W/L), radius (R), sweep angle (SA) and entrenchment (E) as well as valley floor width-to-height ratio (Vf) and strata dips of anticline limbs (DAL), were measured. The study area was sub-divided into eight tectonic zones and then the mean values of the above-mentioned parameters were calculated in each zone. Result reveals that values of SA, BF and E are directly proportional to DAL The poor relationships between catchment characteristics (slope and area) and fan parameters are probably due to extensive karstic landforms of catchments having complex hydrologic systems and, hence, result in complex catchment/fan relations. The highly entrenched fans with high sweep angles and long bases are characteristic of tectonically active fronts of Danehkhoshk anticline, having V-shaped valleys (higher Vf values), steep triangular facets and more rotated limbs (higher DAL values). Apart from the tectonic control on fan development, the fan head entrenchment and negative accumulation spaces on most alluvial fans can be attributed to decreased sediment load and discharge the drier the present-day climate regime. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0169-555X	 	"Hakim Sabzevari Univ, Fac Geog & Environm Sci, Dept Phys Geog, Sabzevar, Iran.; Bahrami, S (reprint author), Hakim Sabzevari Univ, Fac Geog & Environm Sci, Dept Phys Geog, Sabzevar, Iran.; s.bahrami@sttu.ac.ir"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.geomorph.2012.10.012	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Bailen,Maria;Julio,Luis F.;Diaz,Carmen E.;Sanz,Jesus;Martinez-Diaz,Rafael A.;Cabrera,Raimundo;Burillo,Jesus;Gonzalez-Coloma,Azucena"	Chemical composition and biological effects of essential oils from Artemisia absinthium L. cultivated under different environmental conditions	Industrial Crops and Products	 	2013	AUG	49	 	102	107	"Artemisia absinthium;Cultivated;Essential oil;Antifeedant;Antifulgal;Antiparasitic;MAJOR COMPONENTS;ANTIOXIDANT;TOXICITY;POPULATIONS;DERIVATIVES;EXTRACTION;Agriculture ER"	The objective of this study was the valorization of the essential oils from Spanish Artemisia absinthium domesticated plants from Teruel and Sierra Nevada (Spain). These populations were experimentally cultivated in the field and under controlled conditions. The insect antifeedant properties of their essential oils collected yearly from two locations were tested against Spodoptera littoralis, Myzus persicae and Rhopalosiphum padi. Additionally we studied their phytotoxic, antifungal and antiparasitic effects. The oils from cultivated A. absinthium were characterized by the presence of cis-epoxyocimene, chrysanthenol, and chrysanthenyl acetate. The variations observed in oil composition were mostly quantitative but also qualitative. (Z)-2,6-Dimethyl-5,7-octadien-2,3-diol has been isolated and identified by NMR. Among the oil samples, these rich in cis-epoxyocimene and sesquiterpenes were the most active ones against S. littoralis. (Z)-2,6-Dimethyl-5,7-octadien-2,3-diol showed moderate activity against S. littoralis. The strongest antifeedant effects were found for commercial A. absinthium oil samples rich in thujones and sabinyl acetate. F. oxysporum and F. solani were affected by oils from cultivated A. absinthium and commercial oil samples. Oils from cultivated A. absinthium showed antiparasitic effects against Leishmania infantum and Trypanosoma cruzi with better results than the commercial samples. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0926-6690	 	"[Bailen, Maria; Julio, Luis F.; Gonzalez-Coloma, Azucena] CSIC, Inst Ciencias Agr, Madrid 28006, Spain. [Diaz, Carmen E.] CSIC, Inst Prod Nat & Agrobiol, Tenerife 38206, Spain. [Sanz, Jesus] CSIC, Inst Quim Organ Gen, E-28006 Madrid, Spain. [Martinez-Diaz, Rafael A.] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Fac Med, E-28049 Madrid, Spain. [Cabrera, Raimundo] Univ La Laguna, UDI Fitopatol, Fac Biol, E-38206 Tenerife, Spain. [Burillo, Jesus] CITA Gobierno Aragon, Zaragoza 50059, Spain.; Gonzalez-Coloma, A (reprint author), CSIC, Inst Ciencias Agr, Serrano 115 Dpdo, Madrid 28006, Spain.; azu@ccma.csic.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.indcrop.2013.04.055	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Barrero,Alejandro F.;Mar Herrador del Pino,M.;Gonzalez Portero,Adriana;Arteaga Buron,Pilar;Arteaga,Jesus F.;Burillo Alquezar,Jesus;Elisa Diaz,Carmen;Gonzalez Coloma,Azucena"	Terpenes and polyacetylenes from cultivated Artemisia granatensis boiss (Royal chamomile) and their defensive properties	Phytochemistry	Phytochemistry	2013	OCT	94	 	192	197	"Artemisia granatensis;Cultivation;Polyacetylenes;Terpenes;Antifeedant effects;SESQUITERPENE LACTONES;ESSENTIAL OIL;ANTIFEEDANT ACTIVITY;PHYTOTOXIC;ACTIVITY;DERIVATIVES;CONSTITUENTS;COUMARINS;GUAIANOLIDES;COMPOUND;EXTRACTS;Biochemistry & Molecular Biology;Plant Sciences ER"	Artemisia granatensis, an endemic endangered plant species from Sierra Nevada (Spain) has been successfully cultivated in artificial systems (plants in artificial soil and transformed in vitro roots) to generate enough plant biomass (aerial and root) to allow for its chemical and biological study and at the same time to provide with methods for the sustainable production of the plant and its metabolites. A eudesmanolide (17) along with six sesquiterpenes (11-16), nine monoterpenes (2-10), one nor-monoterpene (1), three acetylenic spiroacetal enoleters (18-20) and one coumarin (21) have been identified from the aerial plant ethanolic extract. Acetylenic spiroacetal enoleters 18-19 and coumarins 21-23 have been isolated from the transformed root ethanolic extract. These extracts and some isolated compounds or mixtures of them have been tested for their insect antifeedant effects against Spodoptera littoralis, Myzus persicae and Rhopalosiphum padi. Significant antifeedant properties were determined for the aerial plant extract, spiroacetals 19-20 and secoguaianolides 13 + 14 and 16. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0031-9422	 	"[Barrero, Alejandro F.; Mar Herrador del Pino, M.; Arteaga Buron, Pilar] Univ Granada, Dept Quim Organ, Inst Biotecnol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Gonzalez Portero, Adriana; Elisa Diaz, Carmen] CSIC, Inst Prod Nat & Agrobiol, Tenerife 38206, Spain. [Arteaga, Jesus F.] Univ Huelva, Fac Ciencias Expt, CIQSO Ctr Invest Quim Sostenible, Huelva 21071, Spain. [Arteaga, Jesus F.] Univ Huelva, Fac Ciencias Expt, Dept Ingn Quim Fis Quim & Quim Organ, Huelva 21071, Spain. [Burillo Alquezar, Jesus] Ctr Invest & Tecnol Agroalimentaria Aragon, Dept Ciencia Tecnol & Univ, Zaragoza 930, Spain. [Gonzalez Coloma, Azucena] CSIC, Inst Ciencias Agr, E-28006 Madrid, Spain.; Barrero, AF (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Quim Organ, Inst Biotecnol, Campus Fuente Nueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; afbarre@ugr.es; azu@ccma.csic.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.phytochem.2013.04.002	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Batlles,F. J.;Bosch,J. L.;Tovar-Pescador,J.;Martinez-Durban,M.;Ortega,R.;Miralles,I."	Determination of atmospheric parameters to estimate global radiation in areas of complex topography: Generation of global irradiation map	Energy Conversion and Management	 	2008	FEB	49	2	336	345	"global solar radiation;DTM;radiation map;SOLAR-RADIATION;HORIZONTAL SURFACE;DIFFUSE-RADIATION;PREDICTION;FRACTION;BASIN;Thermodynamics;Energy & Fuels;Mechanics;Physics ER"	Incoming shortwave solar radiation is an important parameter in environmental applications. A detailed spatial and temporal analysis of global solar radiation on the earth surface is needed in many applications, ranging from solar energy uses to the study of agricultural, forest and biological processes. At local scales, the topography is the most important factor in the distribution of solar radiation on the surface. The variability of the elevation, the surface orientation and the obstructions due to elevations are a source of great local differences in insolation and, consequently, in other variables as ground temperature. For this reason, several models based on GIS techniques have been recently developed, integrating topography to obtain the solar radiation on the surface. In this work, global radiation is analyzed with the Solar Analyst, a model implemented on ArcView, that computes the topographic parameters: altitude, latitude, slope and orientation (azimuth) and shadow effects. Solar Analyst uses as input parameters the diffuse fraction and the transmittance. These parameters are not usually available in radiometric networks in mountainous areas. In this work, a method to obtain both parameters from global radiation is proposed. Global radiation data obtained in two networks of radiometric stations is used: one located in Sierra Magina Natural Park (Spain) with 11 stations and another one located on the surroundings of Sierra Nevada Natural Park (Spain) with 14 stations. Daily solar irradiation is calculated from a digital terrain model (DTM), the daily diffuse fraction, K, and daily atmospheric transmittivity, tau. Results provided by the model have been compared with measured values. An overestimation for high elevations is observed, whereas low altitudes present underestimation. The best performance was also reported during summer months, and the worst results were obtained during winter. Finally, a yearly global solar irradiation map has been produced for the studied zone. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0196-8904	 	"[Batlles, F. J.; Bosch, J. L.] Univ Almeria, Dipartimento Fis Aplicada, Almeria 04120, Spain. [Tovar-Pescador, J.] Univ Jaen, Dipartimento Fis, Jaen 23071, Spain. [Martinez-Durban, M.] Univ Almeria, Dipartimento Ingn Leguajes & Computac, Almeria 04120, Spain. [Ortega, R.] Univ Almeria, Dipartimento Edafol & Quim Agricola, Almeria 04120, Spain. [Miralles, I.] Univ Granada, Dipartimento Edafol & Quim Agricola, Granada 28071, Spain.; Batlles, FJ (reprint author), Univ Almeria, Dipartimento Fis Aplicada, Almeria 04120, Spain.; fbatlles@ual.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.enconman.2007.06.012	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Batllori,Enric;Camarero,J. Julio;Ninot,Josep M.;Gutierrez,Emilia"	Seedling recruitment, survival and facilitation in alpine Pinus uncinata tree line ecotones. Implications and potential responses to climate warming	Global Ecology and Biogeography	Global Ecol.Biogeogr.	2009	JUL	18	4	460	472	"Ecotone;facilitation;generalized linear models;Pinus uncinata;Pyrenees;regeneration niche;transplantation experiment;tree line;SCANDES MOUNTAINS;ALTITUDINAL TREELINE;NORTHERN PATAGONIA;POSITIVE;FEEDBACK;ROCKY-MOUNTAINS;SPATIAL-PATTERN;SIERRA-NEVADA;DYNAMICS;VARIABILITY;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Physical Geography ER"	Aims Alpine tree line ecotones are harsh environments where low temperatures constrain tree regeneration and growth. However, the expected upward shift of tree line ecotones in response to climate warming has not been ubiquitous. The lack of coupling between tree line dynamics and climate warming might be explained by factors other than climate variation that determine seedling recruitment in these ecotones. We want to assess how the availability of suitable habitat for establishment and the effects of facilitation on seedling survival and growth affect tree recruitment within tree line ecotones and modulate their responses to climate. Location We evaluate the relevance of these factors for Pinus uncinata tree line ecotones in the Catalan Pyrenees (north-east Spain) and Andorra. Methods We analysed the microhabitat of naturally established seedlings in rectangular plots at the tree line ecotone, assessing the habitat type and the proximity to potentially protective elements that may improve microsite conditions. We tested whether krummholz individuals influence regeneration at the tree line by performing a transplantation field experiment to evaluate the extent of facilitation on seedling survival and growth in height. A total of 820 seedlings were transplanted at different distances and orientations (resulting in 12 positions) from krummholz mats and monitored over 2 years. Results Safe sites for P. uncinata recruits consisted of sparse vegetation covering bare soil, gravel or litter, and close to protective elements that may ameliorate microsite conditions. The field experiment showed that directional positive interactions enhance seedling survival and growth, altering the spatial patterns of recruit survivor-ship, especially during harsh winter conditions (shallow and irregular snowpack). Main conclusions Our results suggest that scarce availability of safe sites and uneven facilitation by krummholz control seedling recruitment patterns within alpine tree line ecotones. Such constraints may distort or counter the response of tree line ecotones to climate warming at local and regional scales.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1466-822X	 	"[Batllori, Enric; Gutierrez, Emilia] Univ Barcelona, Dept Ecol, E-08028 Barcelona, Spain. [Camarero, J. Julio] CSIC, Inst Pirenaico Ecol, Fdn Aragon I D, Zaragoza 50192, Spain. [Ninot, Josep M.] Univ Barcelona, Dept Biol Vegetal, E-08028 Barcelona, Spain.; Batllori, E (reprint author), Univ Barcelona, Dept Ecol, Avinguda Diagonal 645, E-08028 Barcelona, Spain.; enric.batllori@ub.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/j.1466-8238.2009.00464.x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Bats,Michel	The Phoceans, Marseilles and the Gaul (VII - III c. BC)	Diasporas Grecques Du Viiie a La Fin Du Iiie Siecle Av J-C	 	2012	 	 	89	145	+	"Greek colonization;Phocean;Marseilles;protohistoric southern Gaul;acculturation;Archaeology;History ER"	The Phoceans, Marseilles and the Gaul (VII - III c. B.C.) Last of the expeditions of the Greek archaic colonization, the Phocean colonization in the western Mediterranean assumes a particular dimension owing to a real convergence between the strength of the metropolis' maritime activity, the context of Mediterranean exchanges between prexis and emporia and the opening out of new fields of exploration in the outermost West. In pursuance of that settlement in Gaul towards 600 B.C., Marseilles experiences a period of exploitation of the potentialities (VI - V c. B.C.), along the Gallic coasts towards Spain (Tartessos and the silver mines of the Sierra Nevada) with the foundations of Emporion and Mainake and inland, towards the Celtic principalities of the North-East, then as chief interlocutor in southern Gaul. With the foundation of a series of settlements between Iberia and Liguria, in the likeness of the contemporaneous coloniae maritimae civium romanorum, the Hellenistic era is marked by the assertion of the city over its territory in the face of the native populations and, at sea, by the side of Rome opposite the Carthaginians. For all their length of time, it is not always easy to measure the impact of the cultural relationships in the creation of spaces and identities in southern Gaul.	PT: S	 	MartinezSeve,L.	Pallas-Revue d Etudes Antiques	 	 	 				 	"0031-0387; 978-2-8107-0226-8"	 	"[Bats, Michel] CNRS Lattes, UMR 5140, Paris, France.; batcha@club-internet.fr"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Behr,W. M.;Platt,J. P."	Kinematic and thermal evolution during two-stage exhumation of a Mediterranean subduction complex	Tectonics	 	2012	Aug-25	31	 	TC4025	TC4025	"NEVADO-FILABRIDE COMPLEX;HIGH-PRESSURE METAMORPHISM;BETIC OPHIOLITIC;ASSOCIATION;WESTERN SIERRA-NEVADA;CORDILLERAS SE SPAIN;SOUTHERN;SPAIN;EXTENSIONAL DETACHMENTS;MULHACEN COMPLEX;EXCESS ARGON;TEMPERATURE METAMORPHISM;Geochemistry & Geophysics ER"	"We examine the kinematic and thermal evolution of the Nevado-Filabride Complex (NFC), an Early to Middle Miocene subduction complex within the Betic Cordillera of southern Spain. Thermobarometry from the NFC in the Sierra Alhamilla reveals an inverted geothermal gradient, with peak temperatures and pressures of 560 degrees C and 13 kbar reached in the uppermost tectonic unit. The NFC cooled during exhumation, defining a linear PT path that remained within the stability field of kyanite until the aluminosilicate breakdown reaction. Geo- and thermochronology suggest the NFC was subducted and exhumed to the surface within similar to 10 m.y., recording an early stage of fast cooling from peak T through similar to 250 degrees C, followed by a late stage of slower cooling as the rocks approached the surface. The exhumation is associated with a progressive change in kinematics, with early co-axial fabrics showing NNE-SSW-trending stretching lineations, and late non-coaxial fabrics showing SSW-trending lineations. A new tectonic model is proposed to explain these data, in which rocks at the leading edge of the Iberian margin were subducted southeastward beneath the thin, hot, Alboran lithosphere to form the NFC. The rocks at the top of the slab began to be exhumed once they reached 48-67 km depth. They were initially exhumed rapidly along the top of the subducting slab, in a subduction channel geometry; then upon reaching the middle crust, were captured by a low-angle detachment fault with a WSW shear sense and final exhumation was accommodated more slowly in a core-complex geometry."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0278-7407	 	"[Behr, W. M.] Univ Texas Austin, Jackson Sch Geosci, Dept Geol Sci, Austin, TX 78712 USA. [Platt, J. P.] Univ So Calif, Dept Earth Sci, Los Angeles, CA USA.; Behr, WM (reprint author), Univ Texas Austin, Jackson Sch Geosci, Dept Geol Sci, Austin, TX 78712 USA.; behr@utexas.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1029/2012TC003121	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Benito,Blas;Lorite,Juan;Penas,Julio"	Simulating potential effects of climatic warming on altitudinal patterns of key species in Mediterranean-alpine ecosystems	Climatic Change	Clim.Change	2011	OCT	108	3	471	483	"AIR-TEMPERATURE;SIERRA-NEVADA;BAETIC RANGE;PLANTS;DISTRIBUTIONS;CONSERVATION;MODELS;SPAIN;IMPACT;NICHE;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences ER"	In this paper we study an isolated high-mountain (Sierra Nevada, SE Iberian Peninsula) to identify the potential trends in the habitat-suitability of five key species (i.e. species that domain a given vegetation type and drive the conditions for appearance of many other species) corresponding to four vegetation types occupying different altitudinal belts, that might result from a sudden climatic shift. We used topographical variables and downscaled climate warming simulations to build a high-resolution spatial database (10 m) according to four different climate warming scenarios for the twenty-first century. The spatial changes in the suitable habitat were simulated using a species distribution model, in order to analyze altitudinal shifts and potential habitat loss of the key species. Thus, the advance and receding fronts of known occurrence locations were computed by introducing a new concept named differential suitability, and potential patterns of substitution among the key species were established. The average mean temperature trend show an increase of 4.8A degrees C, which will induce the vertical shift of the suitable habitat for all the five key species considered at an average rate of 11.57 m/year. According to the simulations, the suitable habitat for the key species inhabiting the summit area, where most of the endemic and/or rare species are located, may disappear before the middle of the century. The other key species considered show moderate to drastic suitable habitat loss depending on the considered scenario. Climate warming should provoke a strong substitution dynamics between species, increasing spatial competition between both of them. In this study, we introduce the application of differential suitability concept into the analysis of potential impact of climate change, forest management and environmental monitoring, and discuss the limitations and uncertainties of these simulations.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0165-0009	 	"[Benito, Blas; Lorite, Juan; Penas, Julio] Univ Granada, Dept Bot, Fac Sci, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Benito, B (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Bot, Fac Sci, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; blasbp@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10584-010-0015-3	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Biber,Jani Leyla;McCann,Tom"	Peperite development in a Miocene-age carbonate succession, Cabo de Gata volcanic area (Agua Amarga/Carboneras basins), SE Spain - The Breche Rouge revisited	Zeitschrift Der Deutschen Gesellschaft Fur Geowissenschaften	 	2014	JUN	165	2	229	245	"Agua Amarga Basin;Carboneras Basin;volcaniclastics;andesite;mass flows;NORTHERN SIERRA-NEVADA;SOUTHERN SPAIN;SOUTHEASTERN SPAIN;SEQUENCE;STRATIGRAPHY;CALC-ALKALINE;LAS-NEGRAS;NEOGENE;CALIFORNIA;SEDIMENT;ALMERIA;Geology ER"	The Miocene-age Agua Amarga and Carboneras basins, SE Spain, contain an unusual lithological assemblage, termed the Breche Rouge, and comprising fractured andesitic cryptodomes, associated breccias and a fossil-rich volcaniclastic conglomerate and related calcarenite. The cryptodomes are crisscrossed by a series of fractures and veins infilled with brecciated material, the clasts of which often show well-preserved jigsaw textures, as well as evidence of fluidal and sub-planar margins. Surrounding the breccia clasts were three different matrix types, namely a red floatstone/rudstone containing fossils (predominantly solitary corals), as well as pink and orange mudstones. Together, these lithologies are interpreted as resulting from in-situ peperitisation at the top of the cryptodomes and related mass flows, generated as a result of volcanic activity in a submarine setting. The evolution of the succession can be explained in terms of a two-stage model. Stage 1 (pre-Carboneras volcanic stage) comprised the deposition of calcarenites, often interbedded with volcaniclastics and possible bentonites. The volcanic products were derived from the S, SE and E, although it is possible that some of the material was also derived from areas to the N of the Carboneras region. Stage 2 (Carboneras volcanic stage) was characterised by volcanic activity forming massive andesites, and the related intrusion of the andesites into wet and/or unconsolidated carbonate sediments resulting in peperite development. In the Carboneras area mass flows were generated and flowed southwards into the Agua Amarga Basin.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1860-1804	 	"[Biber, Jani Leyla; McCann, Tom] Univ Bonn, Steinmann Inst Geol, D-53115 Bonn, Germany.; Biber, JL (reprint author), Univ Bonn, Steinmann Inst Geol, Nussallee 8, D-53115 Bonn, Germany.; jbiber@online.de; tmccann@uni-bonn.de"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1127/1860-1804/2014/0064	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Blanco-Pastor,J. L.;Fernandez-Mazuecos,M.;Vargas,P."	Past and future demographic dynamics of alpine species: limited genetic consequences despite dramatic range contraction in a plant from the Spanish Sierra Nevada	Molecular ecology	Mol.Ecol.	2013	AUG	22	16	4177	4195	"alpine-Mediterranean;Bayesian skyline plots;conservation;climate change;effective population size;Linaria;species distribution modelling;NORTHERN-HEMISPHERE TEMPERATURES;CLIMATE-CHANGE;BAYESIAN-INFERENCE;POPULATION-SIZE;HAPLOTYPE RECONSTRUCTION;EVOLUTIONARY ADAPTATION;MEDITERRANEAN BASIN;SAXIFRAGA-AIZOIDES;STATISTICAL-METHOD;DNA;POLYMORPHISM;Biochemistry & Molecular Biology;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Evolutionary Biology ER"	"Anthropogenic global climate change is expected to cause severe range contractions among alpine plants. Alpine areas in the Mediterranean region are of special concern because of the high abundance of endemic species with narrow ranges. This study combined species distribution models, population structure analyses and Bayesian skyline plots to trace the past and future distribution and diversity of Linaria glacialis, an endangered narrow endemic species that inhabits summits of Sierra Nevada (Spain). The results showed that: (i) the habitat of this alpine-Mediterranean species in Sierra Nevada suffered little changes during glacial and interglacial stages of late Quaternary; (ii) climatic oscillations in the last millennium (Medieval Warm Period and Little Ice Age) moderately affected the demographic trends of L. glacialis; (iii) future warming conditions will cause severe range contractions; and (iv) genetic diversity will not diminish at the same pace as the distribution range. As a consequence of the low population structure of this species, genetic impoverishment in the alpine zones of Sierra Nevada should be limited during range contraction. We conclude that maintenance of large effective population sizes via high mutation rates and high levels of gene flow may promote the resilience of alpine plant species when confronted with global warming."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0962-1083	 	"[Blanco-Pastor, J. L.; Fernandez-Mazuecos, M.; Vargas, P.] CSIC, RJB, E-28014 Madrid, Spain.; Blanco-Pastor, JL (reprint author), CSIC, RJB, Plaza Murillo 2, E-28014 Madrid, Spain.; jlblanco@rjb.csic.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/mec.12383	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Bonet,Francisco J.;Perez-Perez,Ramon;Benito,Bias M.;de Albuquerque,Fabio Suzart;Zamora,Regino"	Documenting, storing, and executing models in Ecology: A conceptual framework and real implementation in a global change monitoring program	Environmental Modelling & Software	 	2014	FEB	52	 	192	199	"Algorithms;Metadata;Model;Documenting;Workflow;DATA-INTENSIVE SCIENCE;COMPUTATIONAL PROVENANCE;LINKING MODELS;ODD;PROTOCOL;KNOWLEDGE;LIFE;BIOINFORMATICS;BIODIVERSITY;IDENTIFIERS;CHALLENGES;Computer Science;Engineering;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Many of the best practices concerning the development of ecological models or analytic techniques published in the scientific literature are not fully available to modelers but rather are stored in scientists' digital or biological memories. We propose that it is time to address the problem of storing, documenting, and executing ecological models and analytical procedures. In this paper, we propose a conceptual framework to design and implement a web application that will help to meet this challenge. This tool will foster cooperation among scientists, enhancing the creation of relevant knowledge that could be transferred to environmental managers. We have implemented this conceptual framework in a tool called ModeleR. This is being used to document, share, and execute more than 200 models and analytical processes associated with a global change monitoring program that is being undertaken in the Sierra Nevada Mountains (south Spain). ModeleR uses the concept of scientific workflow to connect and execute different types of models and analytical processes. Finally, we have envisioned the creation of a federation of model repositories where models documented within a local repository could be linked and even executed by other researchers. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1364-8152	 	"[Bonet, Francisco J.; Perez-Perez, Ramon; Benito, Bias M.; de Albuquerque, Fabio Suzart; Zamora, Regino] Univ Granada, Inst Interuniv Sist Tierra, Lab Ecol iEcolab, E-18001 Granada, Spain. [Bonet, Francisco J.; Perez-Perez, Ramon; Benito, Bias M.; de Albuquerque, Fabio Suzart; Zamora, Regino] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Bonet, FJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Inst Interuniv Sist Tierra, Lab Ecol iEcolab, Avda Mediterraneo S-N, E-18001 Granada, Spain.; fjhonet@ogr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.envsoft.2013.10.027	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Bonet-Garcia,Francisco J.;Perez-Perez,Ramon;Perez-Luque,Antonio J.;Magana-Redondo,Pedro J."	An Ontological Indicator System Based on MODIS Images to Detect Changes in Habitats Functioning in Sierra Nevada (Spain) Natura 2000 Site	Gi_forum 2013: Creating the Gisociety	 	2013	 	 	 	496	499	"Physical Geography;Geology ER"	We have created an indicator system whose main aim is to assess significant changes in the habitats existing in Sierra Nevada Natura 2000 site. This system is able to automatically download, process and analyse raw data from two MODIS products (snow cover and vegetation indexes). Besides, the system calculates automatically several indicators useful to assess different ecological functions of Sierra Nevada habitats: phenology, seasonality of biomass production, duration of snow cover, etc. We also calculate trends in those indicators. These indicators are aggregated into composite indexes that allow the identification of habitats suffering significant changes in both their ecological functions and physical context. Finally we created an ontology that adds semantic meaning to the whole dataset. This allows the formulation of complex questions regarding the changes observed in habitats.	PT: J	 	Jekel, T Car, A Strobl, J Griesebner,G.	 	 	 	 				 	978-3-87907-532-4	 	"[Bonet-Garcia, Francisco J.; Perez-Perez, Ramon; Perez-Luque, Antonio J.] CEAMA, Lab Ecol, Granada, Spain.; Bonet-Garcia, FJ (reprint author), CEAMA, Lab Ecol, Granada, Spain.; fjbonet@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1553/giscience2013s496	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Bosch,J. L.;Lopez,G.;Batlles,F. J."	Daily solar irradiation estimation over a mountainous area using artificial neural networks	Renewable Energy	Renewable Energy	2008	JUL	33	7	1622	1628	"solar radiation;artificial neural networks;complex terrain;ARD;PHOTOSYNTHETICALLY ACTIVE RADIATION;MODEL;INTERPOLATION;PRECIPITATION;TEMPERATURE;TOPOGRAPHY;VARIABLES;REGION;TURKEY;Energy & Fuels ER"	In order to design both active and passive solar energy systems, radiation data are needed for the studied location. The implementation of such renewable energy systems is especially important in places like natural parks, where acoustic and fossil fuel derived contamination has to be completely avoided. Measure of solar radiation is usually accomplished by means of radiometric station nets with a low spatial resolution. To estimate the radiation in sites located away from the stations, different interpolation/extrapolation techniques may be used. These methods are valid on places where the spatial variability of radiation is not significant, but becomes less accurate if complex terrain areas are present in between the radiometric stations. As an alternative, artificial intelligence techniques have been used in this work, along with a 20 in resolution digital model of terrain. The inputs to the network have been selected using the automatic relevance determination methodology. The data set contains 3 years' data of daily global radiation measured at 12 different stations located in the north face of the Sierra Nevada National Park in the surroundings of Hueneja (Granada), a town located in the South East of Spain. The stations altitude varies from 1000 to 1700 m. The goal of this work has been to estimate daily global irradiation on stations located in a complex terrain, and the values estimated by the neural network model have been compared with the measured ones leading to a root mean square error (RMSE) of 6.0% and a mean bias error (MBE) of 0.2%, both expressed as a percentage of the mean value. Performance achieved individually for each of the stations lies in the range [5.0-7.5]% for the RMSE and [-1.2 to +2.11% for the MBE. Results point out artificial neural networks as an efficient and easy methodology for calculating solar radiation levels over complex mountain terrains from only one radionnetric station data. In addition, this methodology can be applied to other areas with a complex topography. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0960-1481	 	"[Bosch, J. L.; Batlles, F. J.] Univ Almeria, Dpto Fis Aplicada, Almeria 04120, Spain. [Lopez, G.] Univ Huelva, Escuela Politecn Super, Dpto Ingn Elect & Term, Huelva 21819, Spain.; Batlles, FJ (reprint author), Univ Almeria, Dpto Fis Aplicada, Almeria 04120, Spain.; fbatlles@ual.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.renene.2007.09.012	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Bullejos,F. J.;Villar-Argaiz,M.;Medina-Sanchez,J. M.;Delgado-Molina,J. A.;Carrillo,P."	Impact of UV radiation and nutrients on the elemental composition of zooplankton in a Mediterranean high mountain lake	International Association of Theoretical and Applied Limnology, Vol 30, Pt 4, Proceedings	 	2008	 	30	 	623	626	"C:N:P stoichiometry;homeostasis;zooplankton;UV radiation;GROWTH-RATE;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	 	"PT: S; PN: 4"	 	Jones,J. Faaborg,J.	INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF THEORETICAL AND APPLIED LIMNOLOGY - PROCEEDINGS	 	 	 				 	"0368-0770; 978-3-510-54075-4"	 	"[Bullejos, F. J.; Villar-Argaiz, M.; Medina-Sanchez, J. M.; Delgado-Molina, J. A.] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Bullejos, FJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain."	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Calvache,M. L.;Duque,C.;Gomez Fontalva,J. M.;Crespo,F."	Processes affecting groundwater temperature patterns in a coastal aquifer	International Journal of Environmental Science and Technology	 	2011	SPR	8	2	223	236	"Aquifer management;Diffuse recharge;Local recharge;River aquifer interaction;Vertical flow components;SALT-WATER-INTRUSION;SOUTHERN SPAIN;HEAT-TRANSPORT;CONDUCTIVITY;INDICATORS;DYNAMICS;SYSTEMS;STREAMS;SOLUTE;TRACER;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	"The temperature depth profiles of six wells in the Motril-Salobren similar to a aquifer were used as a basis for a comparative analysis involving various parameters to determine their relations and factors influencing the different trends. There is a clear influence of ambient temperature on all the profiles, with a lag time of two to five months. Nevertheless, there are clear differences in the temperature depth profile patterns that can be accounted for by other factors. First, there is a greater influence of localized recharge; Guadalfeo River as opposed to diffuse recharge; irrigation return flow and rainfall. Three of the wells located near the riverbed of the Guadalfeo River have extremely variable temperature-depth profiles and show clear river influence. In springtime, during the highest flood stages of the river due to cold melt water from the Sierra Nevada, the groundwater falls in temperature. During secondary peaks in river flow rates during the autumn due to rainfall, the warm water increases groundwater temperature. The effect of the river recharge decreases with distance from the course since there is less mixing with water from the Guadalfeo River. In addition, there are two temperature-depth profiles in which temperature variations remain shallow and follow a pattern that cannot be attributed to the influence of either of the above two parameters. Among these two cases, the most influential factor is the groundwater flow pattern typical of a discharge zone, characterized by vertical-flow components."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1735-1472	 	"[Calvache, M. L.; Gomez Fontalva, J. M.; Crespo, F.] Univ Granada, Dept Geodynam, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Duque, C.] Univ Copenhagen, Dept Geog & Geol, Copenhagen, Denmark.; Calvache, ML (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Geodynam, Avda Fuentenueva, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; calvache@ugr.es; cduque@ugr.es; chemagomez@ugr.es; fcrespo@correo.ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Camero,A.;Zurita,C.;Gutierrez-Soto,J.;Ozbey Arabaci,M.;Nespoli,E.;Kiaeerad,F.;Beklen,E.;Garcia-Rojas,J.;Caballero-Garcia,M."	Recent activity of the Be/X-ray binary system SAX J2103.5+4545	Astronomy & Astrophysics	 	2014	AUG	568	 	A115	A115	"accretion, accretion disks;pulsars: individual: SAX J2103.5+4545;X-rays: binaries;stars: emission line, Be;ONE-ARMED OSCILLATIONS;PULSAR SAX-J2103.5+4545;OPTICAL COUNTERPART;SPIN-UP;STARS;DISCOVERY;TELESCOPE;OUTBURSTS;PROFILES;SPECTROSCOPY;Astronomy & Astrophysics ER"	"Aims. We present a multi wavelength study of the Be/X-ray binary system SAX J2103.5+4545 with the goal of better characterizing the transient behaviour of this source. Methods. SAXJ2103.5+4545 was observed by Swift/XRT four times in 2007 from April 25 to May 5, and during quiescence in 2012 August 31. In addition, this source has been monitored from the ground-based astronomical observatories of El Teide (Tenerife. Spain), Roque de los Muchachos (La Palma, Spain), and Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain) since 2011 August, and from the TOM-TAR National Observatory (Antalya, Turkey) since 2009 June. We performed spectral and photometric temporal analyses to investigate the different states exhibited by SAXJ2103.5+4545. Results. In X-rays, an absorbed power-law model provided the best fit for all the XRT spectra. An iron-line feature at similar to 6.42 key was present in all the observations except for that taken during quiescence in 2012. The photon indexes are consistent with previous studies of SAX J2103.5+4545 in high/low-luminosity states, Pulsations were found in all the XRT data from 2007 (2.839(2) mHz; MJD 54 222.02), but not during quiescence. The two optical outbursts in 2010 and 2012 lasted for about eight or nine months (as the one in 2007 probably did and the current one in 2014 might do) and were most probably caused by mass-ejection events from the Be star that eventually fed the circumstellar disc. All of these outbursts started about three months before the triggering of the X-ray activity and at about the same period before the maximum of the Ho line equivalent width (in emission) was reached at only similar to 8-5 angstrom. The global correlation between the BV variability and the X-ray intensity was also observed at longer wavelengths in the IR domain."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0004-6361	 	"[Camero, A.] IEEC CSIC, Inst Ciencies Espai, Fac Ciencies, Barcelona 08193, Spain. [Zurita, C.; Garcia-Rojas, J.] Inst Astrofis Canarias, Tenerife 38200, Spain. [Zurita, C.; Garcia-Rojas, J.] Univ La Laguna, Dept Astrofis, E-38206 Tenerife, Spain. [Gutierrez-Soto, J.] Univ Int Valenciana VIU, Valencia 46021, Spain. [Gutierrez-Soto, J.] CSIC, Inst Astrofis Andalucia, E-18008 Granada, Spain. [Ozbey Arabaci, M.] Middle E Tech Univ, Dept Phys, TR-06531 Ankara, Turkey. [Nespoli, E.] Univ Valencia, Astron Observ, Paterna 46980, Valencia, Spain. [Kiaeerad, F.] Nord Opt Telescope, Santa Cruz De La Palma 38700, Spain. [Kiaeerad, F.] Stockholm Univ, Dept Astron, Oscar Klein Ctr, S-10691 Stockholm, Sweden. [Beklen, E.] Suleyman Demirel Univ, Dept Phys, TR-32260 Isparta, Turkey. [Caballero-Garcia, M.] Czech Tech Univ, Fac Elect Engn, Prague 16636 6, Czech Republic.; Camero, A (reprint author), IEEC CSIC, Inst Ciencies Espai, Fac Ciencies, Campus UAB,Torre C5 Pa, Barcelona 08193, Spain.; camero.ascension@gmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1051/0004-6361/201423452	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Canadas,Eva M.;Fenu,Giuseppe;Penas,Julio;Lorite,Juan;Mattana,Efisio;Bacchetta,Gianluigi"	Hotspots within hotspots: Endemic plant richness, environmental drivers, and implications for conservation	Biological Conservation	Biol.Conserv.	2014	FEB	170	 	282	291	"Conservation;Endemic vascular-plant richness;Environmental drivers;Mediterranean Basin;Micro-hotspot;Nano-hotspot;SPECIES RICHNESS;VASCULAR FLORA;CLIMATE-CHANGE;BIODIVERSITY HOTSPOTS;DIVERSITY HOTSPOTS;PROTECTED AREAS;GLOBAL PATTERNS;RAIN-FORESTS;SOUTH SPAIN;RANGE;Biodiversity & Conservation;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Detecting smaller hotspots within larger hotspots could be an essential tool to focus conservation efforts. In this study, we identified hotspots at two scales of analysis within the Mediterranean overall hotspot. Particularly, based on the distribution of endemic-vascular-plant richness (EVPR), we identified micro-hotspots, among the richest floristic territories of the Sardinian and Baetic regions, and nano-hotspots, among the richest 1-km(2) grid cells of Sierra Nevada and Gennargentu massifs, located within these regions. In addition, we explored environmental drivers of EVPR, performing both simple- and multiple-regression models. Our results showed that even in areas previously defined as hotspots, the endemic-plant richness was not uniformly distributed, but rather depended largely on environmental conditions. Relationships between environmental drivers and EVPR have been poorly studied in the Mediterranean context, where we found patterns consistent among scales and regions. Specifically, EVPR was positively linked to altitude and precipitation, particularly in the driest period. Hence, the different levels of hotspots nested in hotspots were organized in a hierarchy. This downscaling approach may help to focus conservation efforts within a given hotspot, e.g. the identification of narrow hotspots could be useful to find gaps in the protected-area networks. Specifically, the identified nano-hotspots are certainly priority sites for plant conservation, since the whole of the nano-hotspots in each region represented less than 1% of the surface area but contained more than 19% of the regional EVPR. Moreover, an examination of both where hotspots are and under what environmental conditions they appear, would enable the detection of specific threats. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0006-3207	 	"[Canadas, Eva M.; Fenu, Giuseppe; Mattana, Efisio; Bacchetta, Gianluigi] Univ Cagliari, Dipartimento Sci Vita & Ambiente, Ctr Conservaz Biodiversita, I-09123 Cagliari, Italy. [Canadas, Eva M.; Penas, Julio; Lorite, Juan] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Bot, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Mattana, Efisio] Royal Bot Gardens Kew, Seed Conservat Dept, Ardingly RH17 6TN, W Sussex, England.; Canadas, EM (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Bot, Avda Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; ecanadas@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.biocon.2013.12.007	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Cano-Manuel,Francisco J.;Lopez-Olvera,Jorge;Fandos,Paulino;Soriguer,Ramon C.;Perez,Jesus M.;Granados,Jose E."	Long-term monitoring of 10 selected pathogens in wild boar (Sus scrofa) in Sierra Nevada National Park, southern Spain	Veterinary microbiology	Vet.Microbiol.	2014	Nov-07	174	01-Feb	148	154	"Sus scrofa;Density;Pathogens;Prevalence;BOVINE TUBERCULOSIS;POPULATION-DYNAMICS;DISEASE;INFECTIONS;ANTIBODIES;EVOLUTION;RESERVOIR;POSSUMS;AREA;Microbiology;Veterinary Sciences ER"	Wild boar (Sus scrofa) populations are increasing in the Iberian Peninsula, and population management must include disease management and control. In this study, the epidemiology of 10 selected pathogens (Aujeszky's disease virus - ADV, porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus - PRRSV, porcine influenza virus, porcine circovirus, porcine parvovirus, Erysipelotrix rhusiopathiae, Leptospira pomona, Chlamydia/Chlamydiaceae sp., Salmonella sp. and Mycobacterium bovis) in the wild boar population in Sierra Nevada National Park (SNNP), an open unfenced area, is reported, taking into account wild boar population abundance variation in space and time in an open unfenced environment A total of 1103 wild boar were sampled in 141 hunting events randomly carried out for sampling in seven hunting seasons (October to February from 2002-2003 to 2009-2010 (except 2007-2008). Prevalence was overall lower than those previously reported for fenced wild boar populations in Spain, but all the pathogens analyzed except PRRSV were considered endemic in the SNNP. ADV, E. rhusiopathiae and total pathogen prevalence were positively correlated to wild boar density. Prevalence in the positive areas was significantly higher in females for ADV, E. rhusiopathiae, L. pomona, Chlamydia/Chlamydiaceae sp. and Salmonella sp., and in males for M. bovis. This longitudinal study provides the first data on the health status of the relatively unmanaged and low density wild boar population of SNNP. It is concluded that non-intensively managed wild boar populations are able to maintain the circulation of several pathogens, even in low prevalences and in open unfenced areas with natural density variation both in time and space. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0378-1135	 	"[Cano-Manuel, Francisco J.; Granados, Jose E.] Espacio Nat Sierra Nevada, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Lopez-Olvera, Jorge] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Dept Med & Cirurgia Anim, Serv Ecopatol Fauna Salvatge SEFaS, E-08193 Barcelona, Spain. [Fandos, Paulino] Agencia Med Ambiente & Agua, E-41092 Seville, Spain. [Soriguer, Ramon C.] CSIC, Estn Biol Donana, E-41092 Seville, Spain. [Perez, Jesus M.] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, E-23071 Jaen, Spain.; Cano-Manuel, FJ (reprint author), Espacio Nat Sierra Nevada, Carretera Antigua Sierra Nevada,Km 7, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; franciscoj.canomanuel@juntadeandalucia.es; elrebeco@yahoo.es; pfandos@agenciamedioambienteyagua.es; soriguer@ebd.csic.es; jperez@ujaen.es; josee.granados.ext@juntadeandalucia.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.vetmic.2014.06.017	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Carinanos,Paloma;Diaz de la Guardia,Consuelo;Antonio Algarra,Jose;De Linares,Concepcion;Ma Irurita,Jose"	The pollen counts as bioindicator of meteorological trends and tool for assessing the status of endangered species: the case of Artemisia in Sierra Nevada (Spain)	Climatic Change	Clim.Change	2013	AUG	119	03-Apr	799	813	"CLIMATE-CHANGE;IBERIAN PENINSULA;ASTERACEAE;GRANATENSIS;PHYLOGENY;AREAS;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences ER"	This study sought to analyse the effects of climate change on Artemisia species growing in Sierra Nevada, a high mountain range in the south-east of the Iberian Peninsula, using pollen counts as a bioindicator. The study also examined the impact of Recovery Programmes implemented for the most endangered of these species. Analysis of historical Artemisia pollen-data series from 1992 to 2011 showed that flowering took place between late July and late September, but the trend towards higher summer temperatures detected over the series as a whole appeared to have delayed the start of flowering and brought forward the end of flowering, thus prompting a shortening of the season. A trend was also observed towards a delayed peak pollen period, together with a significant decline in the Annual Pollen Index, which was significantly influenced by rainfall over the months immediately prior to flowering. Recovery Programmes implemented for three species-Artemisia granatensis, A. alba subsp. nevadensis and A. umbelliformis-involved conservation measures including direct seeding and planting of seedlings. From the outset, these programmes led to a recovery of the Pollen Index, especially when using germinated seedlings, which adapted better than seeds to environmental conditions. In conclusion, pollen records proved to be a useful tool for assessing the status of endangered species.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0165-0009	 	"[Carinanos, Paloma; Diaz de la Guardia, Consuelo] Univ Granada, Dept Bot, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Antonio Algarra, Jose] Consejeria Medio Ambiente Rural & Marino, Environm & Water Agcy, Junta De Andalucia, Andalucia, Spain. [De Linares, Concepcion] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Unitat Bot, Bellaterra, Spain. [Ma Irurita, Jose] Consejeria Medio Ambiente Rural & Marino, Dept Geodivers & Biodivers, Delegac Prov Granada, Junta De Andalucia, Andalucia, Spain.; Carinanos, P (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Bot, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; palomacg@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10584-013-0751-2	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Carvalho,Joao;Granados,Jose E.;Lopez-Olvera,Jorge R.;Javier Cano-Manuel,Francisco;Perez,Jesus M.;Fandos,Paulino;Soriguer,Ramon C.;Velarde,Roser;Fonseca,Carlos;Raez,Arian;Espinosa,Jose;Pettorelli,Nathalie;Serrano,Emmanuel"	Sarcoptic mange breaks up bottom-up regulation of body condition in a large herbivore population	Parasites & Vectors	 	2015	Nov-06	8	 	572	572	"Capra pyrenaica;Host-parasite relationships;Iberian Ibex;Density-dependence;Remote sensing;Sarcoptes scabiei;LEAST-SQUARES REGRESSION;IBEX CAPRA-PYRENAICA;SPANISH IBEX;RED FOXES;SCABIEI;SPAIN;EPIZOOTIOLOGY;PATHOLOGY;RESPONSES;SELECTION;Parasitology ER"	"Background: Both parasitic load and resource availability can impact individual fitness, yet little is known about the interplay between these parameters in shaping body condition, a key determinant of fitness in wild mammals inhabiting seasonal environments. Methods: Using partial least square regressions (PLSR), we explored how temporal variation in climatic conditions, vegetation dynamics and sarcoptic mange (Sarcoptes scabiei) severity impacted body condition of 473 Iberian ibexes (Capra pyrenaica) harvested between 1995 and 2008 in the highly seasonal Alpine ecosystem of Sierra Nevada Natural Space (SNNS), southern Spain. Results: Bottom-up regulation was found to only occur in healthy ibexes; the condition of infected ibexes was independent of primary productivity and snow cover. No link between ibex abundance and ibex body condition could be established when only considering infected individuals. Conclusions: The pernicious effects of mange on Iberian ibexes overcome the benefits of favorable environmental conditions. Even though the increase in primary production exerts a positive effect on the body condition of healthy ibexes, the scabietic individuals do not derive any advantage from increased resource availability. Further applied research coupled with continuous sanitary surveillance are needed to address remaining knowledge gaps associated with the transmission dynamics and management of sarcoptic mange in free-living populations."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1756-3305	 	"[Carvalho, Joao; Fonseca, Carlos; Serrano, Emmanuel] Univ Aveiro, Dept Biol, Ctr Estudos Ambiente & Mar CESAM, P-3810193 Aveiro, Portugal. [Carvalho, Joao; Lopez-Olvera, Jorge R.; Velarde, Roser; Raez, Arian; Serrano, Emmanuel] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Dept Med & Cirurg Anim, Servei Ecopatol Fauna Salvatge SEFaS, E-08193 Barcelona, Spain. [Granados, Jose E.; Javier Cano-Manuel, Francisco; Raez, Arian] Espacio Nat Sierra Nevada, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Perez, Jesus M.; Espinosa, Jose] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, E-23071 Jaen, Spain. [Fandos, Paulino] Agencia Medio Ambiente & Agua, E-41092 Seville, Spain. [Soriguer, Ramon C.] Estac Biol Donana CSIC, E-41092 Seville, Spain. [Pettorelli, Nathalie] Zool Soc London, Inst Zool, London NW1 4RY, England.; Carvalho, J (reprint author), Univ Aveiro, Dept Biol, Ctr Estudos Ambiente & Mar CESAM, Campus Univ Santiago, P-3810193 Aveiro, Portugal.; jlcarvalho@ua.pt; emmanuel.serrano.ferron@gmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1186/s13071-015-1188-4	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Cas,Raymond A. F.;Giordano,Guido"	Submarine Volcanism: a Review of the Constraints, Processes and Products, and Relevance to the Cabo de Gata Volcanic Succession	Italian Journal of Geosciences	 	2014	OCT	133	3	362	377	"Submarine volcanism;effusive eruptions;explosive eruptions;deposit types;Cabo de Gata;shallow marine volcanism;SOUTHERN KERMADEC ARC;SOUFRIERE HILLS VOLCANO;SW PACIFIC;PYROCLASTIC;VOLCANISM;SUBAQUEOUS ERUPTION;EXPLOSIVE ERUPTION;SIERRA-NEVADA;NEW-ZEALAND;DEPOSITS;PUMICE;Geology ER"	Understanding of submarine volcanism still lags behind understanding of subaerial volcanism for the obvious reason that eruptions are usually not, or only partially visible, and deposits are largely inaccessible. In addition, our understanding of the effects of the ambient water mass and the way in which erupting magma and water interact, and the ways in which the physical properties of the water mass control and influence eruption styles, dispersal processes and deposit characteristics, is still at a relatively early stage. In particular, in the past there has been a very simplistic approach to assessing constraints on eruption styles using only ambient hydrostatic pressure, whereas equally important properties such as bulk modulus, compressibility, deformability, attenuation properties, thermal conductivity, heat capacity, have not been adequately considered. This review summarises our understanding on these issues, and briefly summarises varying eruption conditions, styles and deposit characteristics. The origin of pumice deposits preserved in subaqueous settings needs to be interpreted with care. They could represent local explosive events, but could also represent pumice sourced from distant explosive events and vents, even subaerial, and deposited by fallout through water, the passage of pyroclastic flows into water from subaerial vents, long distance rafting of buoyant pumice by currents, reworking and resedimentation, and even non-explosive subaqueous vesiculation and quench fragmentation of subaqueously erupted lavas in shallow or even deep water. The Miocene Cabo de Gata volcanic succession of southeastern Spain was deposited in shallow marine environments based on interbedded fossiliferous limestones, which represent periods of volcanic hiatus. The volcanic facies are consistent with a shallow marine setting, involving eruption of low volatile bearing magmas to form andesite and dacite lava flows, domes and associated hyaloclastites, as well as eruptions of volatile rich rhyolitic magmas that produced pumice deposits erupted from subaerial vents or vents at water depths that were too shallow to suppress explosive eruptions through the effects of hydrostatic pressure, but were then reworked and resedimented.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	2038-1719	 	"[Cas, Raymond A. F.] Monash Univ, Sch Geosci, Clayton, Vic 3800, Australia. [Giordano, Guido] Univ Roma TRE, Dipartimento Sci Geol, Rome, Italy.; Cas, RAF (reprint author), Monash Univ, Sch Geosci, Clayton, Vic 3800, Australia.; ray.cas@sci.monash.edu.au; rudio.giordano@uniroma3.it"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3301/IJG.2014.46	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Casas,J. Jesus;Gessner,Mark O.;Lopez,Dalila;Descals,Enrique"	Leaf-litter colonisation and breakdown in relation to stream typology: insights from Mediterranean low-order streams	Freshwater Biology	Freshwat.Biol.	2011	DEC	56	12	2594	2608	"aquatic hyphomycetes;leaf decomposition;shredders;stream bioassessment;stream typology;ORGANIC-MATTER DYNAMICS;RIVER ECOSYSTEM HEALTH;HEADWATER STREAMS;WOODLAND STREAMS;FUNGAL BIOMASS;FOOD WEBS;INVERTEBRATES;DECOMPOSITION;LEAVES;RATES;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	1. Scant information is available on leaf breakdown in streams of arid and semiarid regions, including the Mediterranean, where environmental heterogeneity can be high and the relationship between stream characteristics and leaf breakdown is poorly known. We tested the hypotheses that differences in leaf breakdown metrics would be substantially higher between mountain and lowland Mediterranean streams than among streams within each subregion and that variability among streams would be substantially higher in the lowlands, because permanent reaches in the semiarid lowland streams are rare and isolated. 2. We compared leaf breakdown and associated dynamics of nutrients, fungi and invertebrates in low-order Mediterranean streams draining sub-humid forests in the Sierra Nevada Mountains and nearby semiarid lowlands of south-eastern Spain. Streams differed between the two subregions mainly in water ion content, temperature and riparian tree cover. We detected higher environmental heterogeneity among streams within the lowlands compared to the Sierra Nevada mountain range. In the lowlands, breakdown coefficients (k) of alder leaves spanned almost the entire range reported for this species from temperate streams, overlapping with less variable breakdown coefficients in the Sierra Nevada. 3. The high variability of k values among the lowland sites appeared to be caused primarily by variability in the composition and abundance of a few leaf-consuming invertebrate taxa, particularly the snail Melanopsis praemorsa. Fungal and nutrient dynamics were less variable among sites within each subregion. 4. These results indicate that the critical condition for stream functional assessment of well-constrained breakdown rates, or related metrics, could be met at reference sites within homogenous bio-geo-climatic regions such as the Sierra Nevada. By contrast, in heterogeneous areas such as the semiarid lowland streams, natural variability of breakdown rates can greatly exceed the magnitude of effects expected in response to anthropogenic disturbances.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0046-5070	 	"[Casas, J. Jesus; Lopez, Dalila] Univ Almeria, Dept Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Almeria 04120, Spain. [Casas, J. Jesus] CAESCG, Almeria, Spain. [Gessner, Mark O.] Leibniz Inst Freshwater Ecol & Inland Fisheries I, Dept Stratified Lakes, Stechlin, Germany. [Gessner, Mark O.] TU Berlin, Berlin Inst Technol, Dept Ecol, Berlin, Germany. [Gessner, Mark O.] Eawag Swiss Fed Inst Aquat Sci & Technol, Dept Aquat Ecol, Dubendorf, Switzerland. [Descals, Enrique] CSIC UIB, Inst Mediterraneo Estudios Avanzados IMEDEA, Esporles, Mallorca, Spain.; Casas, JJ (reprint author), Univ Almeria, Dept Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Almeria 04120, Spain.; jjcasas@ual.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/j.1365-2427.2011.02686.x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Casas,J. Jesus;Langton,Peter H."	Chironomid species richness of a permanent and a temporary Mediterranean stream: a long-term comparative study	Journal of the North American Benthological Society	J.N.Am.Benthol.Soc.	2008	SEP	27	3	746	759	"chironomid species richness;Mediterranean streams;permanent stream;temporary stream;spate;drought;MACROINVERTEBRATE ASSEMBLAGES;COMMUNITY STRUCTURE;PATCH DYNAMICS;DISTURBANCE;ECOLOGY;CONSERVATION;BIODIVERSITY;INTERMITTENT;RESPONSES;WATERS;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	Patterns of chironomid species richness were compared between I permanent and 1 temporary Mediterranean mountain stream in the same basin. From 1991 to 1995, pupal exuviae were collected at irregular intervals in the permanent stream, but the temporary stream was dry because of a long-lasting drought in the region. From March 1996 to March 2000, pupal exuviae were collected fortnightly in both streams. In contrast to other comparative studies that found more species in permanent than in temporary streams, our 2 streams harbored similar temporal I and a diversity during the 1996 to 2000 study period. This result might be explained by the relatively long time the temporary stream was flowing. In addition, the temporary stream showed higher temporal P diversity than the permanent stream, a result that might be attributable to the greater variability in temperature and substrates in the temporary stream. Spates scarcely affected alpha diversity and favored colonization by new species in both streams, a result that supports the patch-dynamic concept of streams. A period of >1 y without spates also resulted in colonization by new species in the permanent stream, but led to a pool phase in the temporary stream that reduced cc diversity considerably. Overall, both streams had similar chironomid species richness and species rarity and high faunal complementarity. These results support the view that temporary aquatic habitats deserve consideration in conservation plans designed to protect species and their habitats.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0887-3593	 	"[Casas, J. Jesus] Univ Almeria, Dept Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Almeria 04120, Spain. [Langton, Peter H.] Univ Cambridge, Museum Zool, Cambridge, England.; Casas, JJ (reprint author), Univ Almeria, Dept Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Almeria 04120, Spain.; jjcasas@ual.es; phlangton@kylebegave.fsnet.co.uk"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1899/07-115.1	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Castro,J.;Puerta-Pinero,C.;Leverkus,A. B.;Moreno-Rueda,G.;Sanchez-Miranda,A."	Post-fire salvage logging alters a key plant-animal interaction for forest regeneration	Ecosphere	 	2012	OCT	3	10	UNSP 90	UNSP 90	"Garrulus glandarius;jay-oak interaction;oak colonization;Quercus ilex;resilience;salvage harvesting;seed dispersal;Sierra Nevada National Park;succession;JAY GARRULUS-GLANDARIUS;QUERCUS-ILEX;SPATIAL-PATTERNS;SEED;DISPERSERS;PINE FORESTS;MANAGEMENT;OAKS;RECRUITMENT;POPULATION;GRASSLAND;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	"Post-fire salvage logging is widely implemented worldwide, but there is an increasing concern about its potential impact on the ecosystem. Moreover, there is scant information about the effect of salvage logging on ecosystem processes mediated by species interactions. We manipulated a burnt pine forest to experimentally analyze the effect of burnt-wood management on the colonization of Holm oak (Quercus ilex) mediated by acorn dispersal by Eurasian jays (Garrulus glandarius). Three replicates of three treatments were established in an 18-ha plot: salvage logging (SL), non-intervention (NI), and partial cut plus lopping (PCL; felling and lopping most of the trees but leaving all the biomass in situ). We hypothesized that different burnt-wood management could alter jays' landscape perception and thus the pattern of seed dispersal and seedling recruitment. We monitored jay abundance in each treatment for three winters and three breeding periods, and jay flights of potential acorn dispersal between nearby oak trees and the treatments. We also searched for oak seedlings recruited in the experimental plot for five years following the fire. Jays were recorded significantly more times (87%) in NI, and movements to this treatment during the acorn dispersal period were also more frequent (81% of the flights). Oak seedlings were also more abundant in NI (ca. 55%) than in SL or PCL (ca. 25% each), despite a strong effect of small remnants of live pines. The results show that the burnt forest, if unsalvaged, still provides a suitable habitat for jays, while salvage logging reduces the strength of this key plant-animal interaction for oak natural regeneration. Nonintervention policies after a forest fire therefore provide the opportunity for adaptive management that helps reduce restoration costs and increase the resilience of the system."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	2150-8925	 	"[Castro, J.; Leverkus, A. B.; Sanchez-Miranda, A.] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Puerta-Pinero, C.] Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Unit 0948, Washington, DC USA. [Moreno-Rueda, G.] Univ Granada, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Castro, J (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jorge@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1890/ES12-00089.1	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Castro,Jorge;Moreno-Rueda,Gregorio;Hodar,Jose A."	Experimental Test of Postfire Management in Pine Forests: Impact of Salvage Logging versus Partial Cutting and Nonintervention on Bird-Species Assemblages	Conservation Biology	Conserv.Biol.	2010	JUN	24	3	810	819	"clearcutting;postfire burned wood management;postfire forest restoration;salvage harvesting;salvage logging;Sierra Nevada National Park;snags;COMMUNITY SUCCESSION;NATURAL-DISTURBANCE;FIRE;DISPERSAL;SEVERITY;WILDFIRE;SPAIN;REGENERATION;LANDSCAPES;ECOSYSTEMS;Biodiversity & Conservation;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	There is an intense debate about the effects of postfire salvage logging versus nonintervention policies on regeneration of forest communities, but scant information from experimental studies is available. We manipulated a burned forest area on a Mediterranean mountain to experimentally analyze the effect of salvage logging on bird-species abundance, diversity, and assemblage composition. We used a randomized block design with three plots of approximately 25 ha each, established along an elevational gradient in a recently burned area in Sierra Nevada Natural and National Park (southeastern Spain). Three replicates of three treatments differing in postfire burned wood management were established per plot: salvage logging, nonintervention, and an intermediate degree of intervention (felling and lopping most of the trees but leaving all the biomass). Starting 1 year after the fire, we used point sampling to monitor bird abundance in each treatment for 2 consecutive years during the breeding and winter seasons (720 censuses total). Postfire burned-wood management altered species assemblages. Salvage logged areas had species typical of open-and early-successional habitats. Bird species that inhabit forests were still present in the unsalvaged treatments even though trees were burned, but were almost absent in salvage-logged areas. Indeed, the main dispersers of mid-and late-successional shrubs and trees, such as thrushes (Turdus spp.) and the European Jay (Garrulus glandarius) were almost restricted to unsalvaged treatments. Salvage logging might thus hamper the natural regeneration of the forest through its impact on assemblages of bird species. Moreover, salvage logging reduced species abundance by 50% and richness by 40%, approximately. The highest diversity at the landscape level (gamma diversity) resulted from a combination of all treatments. Salvage logging may be positive for bird conservation if combined in a mosaic with other, less-aggressive postfire management, but stand-wide management with harvest operations has undesirable conservation effects.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0888-8892	 	"[Castro, Jorge; Hodar, Jose A.] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Grp Ecol Terrestre, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Moreno-Rueda, Gregorio] Osterreisch Acad Wissensch, Konrad Lorenz Inst Vergleichende Verhaltenforsch, A-1160 Vienna, Austria. [Moreno-Rueda, Gregorio] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Biol Anim, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Castro, J (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Grp Ecol Terrestre, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jorge@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/j.1523-1739.2009.01382.x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Catry,F. X.;Rego,F.;Moreira,F.;Fernandes,P. M.;Pausas,J. G."	Post-fire tree mortality in mixed forests of central Portugal	Forest Ecology and Management	For.Ecol.Manage.	2010	Aug-31	260	7	1184	1192	"Wildfires;Fire effects;Tree survival;Modelling;Mediterranean ecosystems;Resprouting;QUERCUS-SUBER;SIERRA-NEVADA;CROWN DAMAGE;NE SPAIN;FIRE;SURVIVAL;WILDFIRE;USA;CALIFORNIA;CONIFERS;Forestry ER"	Wildfires are a recurrent disturbance in the Mediterranean Basin. However, managers from this region are confronted with a lack of information on the effects of fire on most woody species, which is required for defining sustainable forest management strategies. Following a large wildfire in central Portugal (2003), we surveyed the area during the first year and assessed the vegetative condition of 1040 burned trees from 11 different species. Among those trees, 755 individuals were selected and monitored annually for 4 years. At the end of the study, almost all the broadleaved trees survived, while most coniferous died. In spite of the low mortality observed in broadleaves, most were top-killed and regenerated only from basal resprouts, which implies a slow recovering process. Quercus suber, however, showed vigorous post-fire crown resprouting and was the most resilient species. We fitted logistic regression models to predict the probability of individual tree mortality and top-kill from fire injury indicators and tree characteristics. Besides the differences between the two main functional groups (coniferous, broadleaved), bole char height and crown volume scorched or consumed were important predictors of tree responses. Additionally, the main factor determining crown mortality on broadleaved species was bark thickness. The selected models performed well when tested with independent data obtained on four other wildfires. These models have several potential applications and can be useful to managers making pre-fire or post-fire decisions in mixed forest stands in the western Mediterranean Basin. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0378-1127	 	"[Catry, F. X.; Rego, F.; Moreira, F.] Univ Tecn Lisboa, Inst Super Agron, Ctr Ecol Aplicada Prof Baeta Neves, P-1349017 Lisbon, Portugal. [Pausas, J. G.] CSIC, CIDE, Ctr Invest Desertificac, ES-46470 Valencia, Spain.; Catry, FX (reprint author), Univ Tecn Lisboa, Inst Super Agron, Ctr Ecol Aplicada Prof Baeta Neves, P-1349017 Lisbon, Portugal.; fcatry@isa.utl.pt"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.foreco.2010.07.010	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Cepak,Vladislav;Lukavsky,Jaromir"	Cryoseston in the Sierra Nevada Mountains (Spain)	Nova Hedwigia	Nova Hedwigia	2011	DEC	94	01-Feb	163	173	"Cryoseston;Sierra Nevada Mountains (Spain);SNOW ALGA;NOV CHLOROPHYTA;LIFE-HISTORY;COMB-NOV;VOLVOCALES;BULGARIA;ECOLOGY;Plant Sciences ER"	Coloured snow fields in the Sierra Nevada Mountains (Spain) were studied, and thirty two cryoseston samples were collected from the central region of these mountains, on the southern slopes of Mulhacen and the northern slopes of Pico de Veleta (altitudes from ca 2500 m above sea level). Of the cryoseston, we report 3 species of algae and 5 species of fungi. The green alga Chlamydomonas cf. nivalis dominated the majority of snowfields whereas Chloromonas nivalis prevailed in the majority of other localities. Chloromonas brevispina was also recorded but was rarely dominant. Fungi were represented by Selenotila nivalis, cf. Rhodosporidium toruloides, Alternaria sp., cf. Myzocytium and cl Cochlonema verrucosum. Species that are common in the snowfields of European mountains, including genera such as Koliella, Stichococcus etc. and the fungus Chionaster nivalis, were absent.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0029-5035	 	"[Cepak, Vladislav; Lukavsky, Jaromir] Acad Sci Czech Republic, Inst Bot, Dept Plant Ecol, Ctr Bioindicat & Revitalisat, CZ-37982 Trebon, Czech Republic.; Cepak, V (reprint author), Acad Sci Czech Republic, Inst Bot, Dept Plant Ecol, Ctr Bioindicat & Revitalisat, Dukelska 135, CZ-37982 Trebon, Czech Republic.; cepak@botany.cas.cz"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1127/0029-5035/2012/0094-0163	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Chacon,Jose;Irigaray,Clemente;El Hamdouni,Rachid;Valverde-Palacios,Ignacio;Valverde-Espinosa,Ignacio;Calvo,Francisco;Jimenez-Peralvarez,Jorge;Chacon,Eva;Fernandez,Paz;Garrido,Jesus;Lamas,Francisco"	Engineering and Environmental Geology of Granada and its Metropolitan Area (Spain)	Environmental & Engineering Geoscience	 	2012	AUG	18	3	217	260	"Engineering Geology;Baetic Cordillera;Natural Hazards;Seismic and Geotechnical Regulations;BETIC CORDILLERA;SEISMIC HAZARD;SOUTHERN SPAIN;BASIN;Engineering;Geology ER"	Granada and its metropolitan area lie on the eastern edge of a basin where the foothills rise into the adjacent Sierra Nevada (3,482 m). On the west the valley is bordered by several faulted, Quaternary-age alluvial fans and by dissected terraces of the Genil River. Landscape evolution from about Tortonian to Pleistocene time is reflected by relict Quaternary glaciers preserved on a deeply eroded lower Paleozoic terrain and by terrace remnants and channels resulting from rapid Late Pleistocene and Holocene fluvial incision. This particular geological, geomorphic, and active tectonic setting, combined with a Mediterranean climate under continental influence, and the rapid urban development in the last 60 years have increased exposure to several natural hazards. Urban expansion has increased flash-flood and mass-wasting vulnerability, and seismic risk is similarly increasing with the 1884 Andalusian Earthquake (M 6.3), reflecting the last of several large, similar to 500-year recurrence temblors that have affected the area since at least Roman times. Modern Granada and its metropolitan area, with about a half million inhabitants, are currently increasingly challenged by the highest levels of exposure to natural hazards, by strain on traditional society resulting from adapting to the changes produced by the three decades since the advent of democracy (1978) and by the consequences of the deep economic crisis.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1078-7275	 	"[Chacon, Jose; Irigaray, Clemente; El Hamdouni, Rachid; Calvo, Francisco; Jimenez-Peralvarez, Jorge; Fernandez, Paz; Garrido, Jesus; Lamas, Francisco] Univ Granada, Dept Civil Engn, Granada, Spain. [Valverde-Palacios, Ignacio; Valverde-Espinosa, Ignacio; Chacon, Eva] Univ Granada, Dept Architectural Construct, Granada, Spain.; Chacon, J (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Civil Engn, Granada, Spain.; jchacon@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Clark,S. J. P.;Dempster,T. J."	The record of tectonic denudation and erosion in an emerging orogen: an apatite fission-track study of the Sierra Nevada, southern Spain	Journal of the Geological Society	 	2009	JAN	166	 	87	100	"BETIC CORDILLERA;SE SPAIN;GRANADA BASIN;DETRITAL ZIRCONS;EXHUMATION;RATES;THERMOCHRONOLOGY;HISTORIES;EXAMPLE;GROUNDWATER;Geology ER"	Apatite fission-track analysis of rocks from the Sierra Nevada basement, southern Spain reveals a detailed record of Neogene denudation. This is combined with evidence of the accumulation of elastic sedimentary rocks in the adjacent Granada Basin to provide a comprehensive record of the denudation of the emerging mountain block. Fission-track ages of c. 9-10 and 4 Ma obtained front the basement reveal periods of rapid cooling linked to tectonic denudation of the metamorphic core. The first major Pulse of erosion from the Sierra Nevada produced proximal conglomerates in the marine basin and is constrained at c. 7 Ma using Sr-isotope stratigraphy. No major signal of rapid cooling is preserved by the fission-track systems in the basement block associated with this event. Apatite fission-track data from the conglomerates show young ages and short track lengths indicative of reheating. Modelling of the data suggests that heating occurred at around 4 Ma and is linked to movement of hot fluids through the basin. The ability of thermochronometers to record erosional events during the early stages of orogenesis is critically examined and we suggest that in young rising Mountain blocks surface processes are incapable of keeping pace with rock Uplift, and denudation principally occurs via tectonic processes.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0016-7649	 	"[Clark, S. J. P.; Dempster, T. J.] Univ Glasgow, Dept Geog & Earth Sci, Glasgow G12 8QQ, Lanark, Scotland.; Dempster, TJ (reprint author), Univ Glasgow, Dept Geog & Earth Sci, Gregory Bldg, Glasgow G12 8QQ, Lanark, Scotland.; Tim.Dempster@ges.gla.ac.uk"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1144/0016-76492008-041	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Cobo-Diaz,Jose F.;Martinez-Hidalgo,Pilar;Fernandez-Gonzalez,Antonio J.;Martinez-Molina,Eustoquio;Toro,Nicolas;Velazquez,Encarna;Fernandez-Lopez,Manuel"	The endemic Genista versicolor from Sierra Nevada National Park in Spain is nodulated by putative new Bradyrhizobium species and a novel symbiovar (sierranevadense)	Systematic and applied microbiology	Syst.Appl.Microbiol.	2014	MAY	37	3	177	185	"Bradyrhizobium;Genista;Symbiovar;Rhizobia;Biodiversity;Phylogeny;SP-NOV.;MAXIMUM-LIKELIHOOD;EFFECTIVE NODULES;STRAINS;SEQUENCES;GENETICS;SOILS;TREES;BETA;Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology;Microbiology ER"	Genista versicolor is an endemic legume from Sierra Nevada National Park which constitutes one of the UNESCO-recognized Biosphere Reserves. In the present.study, a collection of strains nodulating this legume was analysed in characteristic soils of this ecosystem. Most strains nodulating G. versicolor belonged to rrs group I within the genus Bradyrhizobium and only one strain, named GV137, belonged to rrs group II from which only a single species, B. retamae, has been described in Europe to date. Strain GV137, and some strains from rrs group I, belonged to putative new species of Bradyrhizobium, although most strains from group I belonged to B. canariense, according to the ITS fragment and atpD gene analysis. This result contrasted with those obtained in Genista tinctoria in Northeast Europe whose endosymbionts were identified as B. japonicum. The analysis of the symbiotic nodC and nifH genes carried by G. versicolor-nodulating strains showed that most of them belonged to symbiovar genistearum, as did those isolated from G. tinctoria. Nevertheless, strain GV137, belonging to rrs group II, formed a divergent lineage that constituted a novel symbiovar within the genus Bradyrhizobium for which the name sierranevadense is proposed. This finding showed that the Genisteae are not restrictive legumes only nodulated by symbiovar genistearum, since Genista is a promiscuous legume nodulated by at least two symbiovars of Bradyrhizobium, as occurs in Retama species. (C) 2013 Published by Elsevier GmbH.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0723-2020	 	"[Cobo-Diaz, Jose F.; Fernandez-Gonzalez, Antonio J.; Toro, Nicolas; Velazquez, Encarna; Fernandez-Lopez, Manuel] CSIC, Estn Expt Zaidin, Dept Microbiol Suelo & Sistemas Simbiot, Granada, Spain. [Martinez-Hidalgo, Pilar; Martinez-Molina, Eustoquio; Velazquez, Encarna] Univ Salamanca, Dept Microbiol & Genet, E-37008 Salamanca, Spain.; Velazquez, E (reprint author), Dept Microbiol & Genet, Lab 209, Edificio Dept Biol,Campus Miguel de Unamuno, Salamanca 37007, Spain.; evp@usal.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.syapm.2013.09.008	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Cobos,Guillermo;Frances,Miguel;Arenillas,Miguel"	The ERHIN programme. Hydrological-nival modelling for the management of water resources in the Ebro basin	Houille Blanche-Revue Internationale De L Eau	 	2010	 	 	3	58	64	Water Resources ER	In certain areas of Spain (The Pyrenees, The Cantabrian and Iberian ranges, the Central Highlands and the Sierra Nevada) nival precipitation reaches significant levels during the winter, leading to long-lasting thicknesses of snow in catchment basins and rapid melting of this snow in short periods of time directly related to the rise of the zero degree isotherm in spring. Twenty-jive years ago, the then National Hydraulic Works Authority (now the National Water Authority), taking into account the importance of snowfalls in the management of water resources, initiated the ERHIN programme (Study on Water Resources originating from Innivation). The object of this was to quantify the processes in question and thus enable the management of those reservoirs situated at the foot of the principal Spanish mountain ranges. During recent years, the various systems for monitoring snow cover in mountain areas (measurements based on satellite imaging) have advanced and improved. An IT system (ASTER) enables the volume of water accumulated in the form of snow to be simulated (time-space distribution), thereby facilitating forecasts of snow melt flows. The ASTER model is currently used in conjunction with SAIH (Automatic Hydrological Information System) to forecast inflows for the main reservoirs in Spain. The main characteristics of the EHRIN programme and the ASTER model, along with the results obtained to date for the Ebro basin, are analysed in this article.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0018-6368	 	"[Cobos, Guillermo] Univ Politech Valencia, Valencia, Spain.; Cobos, G (reprint author), Univ Politech Valencia, Valencia, Spain.; gcobosc@trr.upv.es; mfrances@mma.es; map@ing75.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1051/lhb/2010035	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Conde-Porcuna,Jose M.;Javier Valdes,Francisco;Romo,Susana;Perez-Martinez,Carmen"	Ephippial and subitaneous egg abortion: relevance for an obligate parthenogenetic Daphnia population	Journal of Limnology	 	2011	 	70	1	69	75	"high-mountain lake;reproduction strategies;ephippial eggs;egg abortion;Daphnia pulicaria;AGE DISTRIBUTION;DIAPAUSING EGGS;DEATH RATES;FATTY-ACIDS;BIRTH-RATES;REPRODUCTION;DYNAMICS;ZOOPLANKTON;EVOLUTION;PULICARIA;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	"We experimentally analysed the importance of egg abortion in the reproduction strategies of Daphnia pulicaria (Forbes) in Lake Rio Seco, a high mountain lake. Adult animals were exposed to different treatments under continuous or dynamic conditions (temperature and photoperiod) to test whether the simulation of field conditions, with changing temperature and photoperiod, induces differences in their reproductive traits in comparison to continuous conditions, with the aim of extrapolating results to the lake. Continuous conditions were the photoperiod and temperature values recorded in the lake at the time when ephippial reproduction is induced. Dynamic conditions were the changing values in the field from the continuous conditions until autumn. The number of healthy ephippial eggs per ephippium was also recorded by using sediment traps in the lake. Our results show that subitaneous and ephippial egg abortion has a major influence on an obligate parthenogenetic Daphnia population in both the laboratory and field. The total number of healthy ephippial eggs per ephippium (mean +/- SE; 0.52 +/- 0.12) and the proportion of released empty ephippia obtained in the sediment traps (0.73 +/- 0.05) were similar to those experimentally obtained under dynamic conditions (healthy eggs per ephippium: 0.29 +/- 0.16; proportion of released empty ephippia: 0.79 +/- 0.11), suggesting that ephippial egg abortion and empty ephippia production are frequent in nature. This is the first study to describe Daphnia ephippial egg abortion and compare subitaneous and ephippial egg abortion between experimental and field conditions. This approach is recommended for future research into Daphnia or cladoceran reproduction."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1129-5767	 	"[Conde-Porcuna, Jose M.; Javier Valdes, Francisco; Perez-Martinez, Carmen] Univ Granada, Inst Water Res, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Romo, Susana] Univ Valencia, Fac Biol, Area Ecol, E-46100 Valencia, Spain.; Conde-Porcuna, JM (reprint author), Univ Granada, Inst Water Res, Ramon y Cajal 4, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jmconde@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3274/JL11-70-1-09	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Cunniffe,R.;Castro-Tirado,A. J.;Jelinek,M.;Gorosabel,J.;Moline,B.;Garcia-Segura,F."	Status of the Bootes-Ir Project at Osn for Grb Near-Ir Follow-Up	Gamma-Ray Bursts: 15 Years of Grb Afterglows - Progenitors, Environments and Host Galaxies from the Nearby to the Early Universe	 	2013	 	61	 	471	474	Astronomy & Astrophysics ER	Bootes-IR (Castro-Tirado et al. 2005) is a robotic observatory based around a 60 cm alt-az telescope (dubbed T60) that can slew rapidly while carrying heavy instrumentation at the Nasmyth foci. Initially commissioned with an optical camera, with which the optical afterglow to GRB 060707 (http://gcn.gsfc.nasa.gov/gcn3/5290.gcn3) was discovered, we have concentrated our efforts on the near-IR (0.8-2.5 mu m) camera (BIRCAM) for which the telescope was specifically designed. The telescope is installed at the Observatorio de Sierra Nevada near Granada in Spain, at an altitude of 3000 m and in an area of very low humidity. The telescope, dome, camera and liquid nitrogen generation and refilling systems have all been recently brought back into operation, and routine observations are expected to begin within the next few months.	PT: S	 	CastroTirado, AJ Gorosabel, J Park,IH	EAS Publications Series	 	 	 				 	"1633-4760; 978-2-7598-1002-4"	 	"[Cunniffe, R.; Castro-Tirado, A. J.; Jelinek, M.; Gorosabel, J.; Moline, B.] CSIC, Inst Astrofis Andalucia, E-18008 Granada, Spain.; Cunniffe, R (reprint author), CSIC, Inst Astrofis Andalucia, Glorieta Astron S-N, E-18008 Granada, Spain."	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1051/eas/1361076	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Cunniffe,R.;Castro-Tirado,A. J.;Kubanek,P.;Jelinek,M.;Vitek,S.;Gorosabel,J.;Postigo,A. de Ugarte;Riva,A.;Zerbi,F.;Claret,A.;Sanchez-Fernandez,C."	Installation and first light of the BOOTES-IR near-IR camera	Advanced Software and Control for Astronomy Ii, Pts 1 & 2	 	2008	 	7019	 	70191H	70191H	"Robotic telescopes;telescope software;near-IR instrumentation;cryogenics;TELESCOPE;SYSTEM;GRB;Automation & Control Systems;Astronomy & Astrophysics;Instruments & Instrumentation ER"	BIRCAM is a near-infrared (0.8-2.5um) cryogenic camera based on a 1Kx1K HgCdTe array. It was designed for - and is now mounted at - one of the Nasmyth foci of the fast-slewing 0.6 m BOOTES-IR telescope at the Sierra Nevada Observatory (OSN) in Spain. The primary science mission is prompt Gamma Ray-Burst afterglow research, with an implied demand for extremely time-efficient operation. We describe the challenges of installing a heavy camera on a small high-speed telescope, of integrating the dithering mechanism, the filterwheel, and the array itself into a high-efficiency instrument, the design of the software to meet the requirements.	"PT: S; PN: 1-2"	 	Bridger,A. Radziwill,NM	PROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHOTO-OPTICAL INSTRUMENTATION ENGINEERS (SPIE)	 	 	 				 	"0277-786X; 978-0-8194-7229-8"	 	"[Cunniffe, R.; Castro-Tirado, A. J.; Kubanek, P.; Jelinek, M.; Vitek, S.; Gorosabel, J.; Claret, A.] ISS CSIC, Granada 18008, Spain.; Cunniffe, R (reprint author), ISS CSIC, 50 Camino Bajo de Huetor, Granada 18008, Spain."	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1117/12.789774	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Das,Adrian	The effect of size and competition on tree growth rate in old-growth coniferous forests	Canadian Journal of Forest Research-Revue Canadienne De Recherche Forestiere	 	2012	NOV	42	11	1983	1995	"NEW-ENGLAND FORESTS;ENVIRONMENTAL GRADIENTS;TROPICAL FORESTS;NEIGHBORS MATTER;MORTALITY;INDEXES;MODELS;IDENTITY;STANDS;Forestry ER"	Tree growth and competition play central roles in forest dynamics. Yet models of competition often neglect important variation in species-specific responses. Furthermore, functions used to model changes in growth rate with size do not always allow for potential complexity. Using a large data set from old-growth forests in California, models were parameterized relating growth rate to tree size and competition for four common species. Several functions relating growth rate to size were tested. Competition models included parameters for tree size, competitor size, and competitor distance. Competitive strength was allowed to vary by species. The best ranked models (using Akaike's information criterion) explained between 18% and 40% of the variance in growth rate, with each species showing a strong response to competition. Models indicated that relationships between competition and growth varied substantially among species. The results also suggested that the relationship between growth rate and tree size can be complex and that how we model it can affect not only our ability to detect that complexity but also whether we obtain misleading results. In this case, for three of four species, the best model captured an apparent and unexpected decline in potential growth rate for the smallest trees in the data set.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0045-5067	 	"US Geol Survey, Western Ecol Res Ctr, Sequoia Kings Canyon Field Stn, Three Rivers, CA 93271 USA.; Das, A (reprint author), US Geol Survey, Western Ecol Res Ctr, Sequoia Kings Canyon Field Stn, 47050 Gen Highway 4, Three Rivers, CA 93271 USA.; adas@usgs.gov"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1139/x2012-142	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	de Galdeano,C. Sanz	Fracture controls in Tablate (Lecrin, Granada, Betic Chain, Spain)	Estudios Geologicos-Madrid	 	2008	 	64	2	123	133	"Normal faults;joints;lithologic control;palaeostress;Betic Chain;SOUTHERN SPAIN;CORDILLERAS;BASIN;Geology ER"	The formation of the fractures of the Tablate area (situated in the transition between the Granada basin and the Alpujarran corridor) was controlled by the progressive and important uplift of Sierra Nevada, occurred from the late Miocene. Consequently, the direction of the extension is close to that occurred at the South of Sierra Nevada and the characteristics of the paleostress ellipsoid are congruent with this uplift. On the other hand, two local controls have been observed in the development of the minor fractures: there is a clear lithologic influence, particularly in the contact between levels of silts and other formed by coarser sediments. Moreover, local changes of the stress produced a different grade of the fracturation.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0367-0449	 	"Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra, CSIC, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; de Galdeano, CS (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra, CSIC, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; csanz@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3989/egeol.08642.045	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"de Magalhaes,Rita M. Q.;Schwilk,Dylan W."	Leaf traits and litter flammability: evidence for non-additive mixture effects in a temperate forest	Journal of Ecology	J.Ecol.	2012	SEP	100	5	1153	1163	"determinants of plant community diversity and structure;flammability;leaf litter;mixed-conifer forest;non-additivity;plant traits;species interactions;SIERRA-NEVADA;FIRE REGIMES;BURNING;CHARACTERISTICS;DECOMPOSITION RATES;NICHE CONSTRUCTION;FUEL;EVOLUTION;PLANTS;CALIFORNIA;Plant Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	"1. Although it is recognized that plant species vary in their flammability, we currently lack a mechanistic understanding of how plant traits influence fire and how litter mixtures behave in a fire. As modified fire regimes and climate change shift the species composition of communities, a mechanistic perspective is especially important to understand and predict fire in potentially novel plant communities. This work addresses three questions: (i) How do eight species common in Sierra Nevada mixed-conifer forest differ in their litter flammability? (ii) What leaf traits are associated with various flammability components? and (iii) Do individual species measurements predict multi-species combinations, or are there non-additive effects? 2. Leaf litter was collected in Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks, California, from eight dominant tree species in mixed-conifer forest. Controlled flammability tests were performed on reconstructed monospecific litter beds and on mixed litter beds, using litter from three species. We tested for non-additive effects in multi-species mixtures using the weighted mean of single-species measures for each flammability component as a null expectation for each mixture; departures from this null indicated non-additive effects. 3. Most flammability components fell within two major axes of variation, one relating to total heat release and another to fire intensity. The eight species differed significantly in all flammability components, with large-leaved species creating litter that burned with higher intensity. 4. Non-additive species mixture effects are common in this system. Flammability tends to be driven by the most flammable component of the mixture. 5. Synthesis. We have demonstrated positive non-additive effects in mixtures of leaf litter. The most flammable constituent species of a mixture has disproportionate effects on the fire environment faced by the entire community. This could potentially influence community assembly and alter the selective environment faced by co-occurring species."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0022-0477	 	"[de Magalhaes, Rita M. Q.; Schwilk, Dylan W.] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA.; de Magalhaes, RMQ (reprint author), Texas Tech Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA.; rita.quinones-magalhaes@ttu.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/j.1365-2745.2012.01987.x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Book, Whole	"de Matias Bejarano,Javier;Moreno del Pozo,Jose;Guerrero Campo,Jose J."	A multi-view dense reconstruction for rock glacier modelling	 	 	2009	 	 	 	168	 	"Photogrammetry;computer vision;dense reconstruction;rock glaciers;Computer Science;Information Science & Library Science ER"	Rock glacier is a rare case of study for 3D modelling. This type of models has particular properties which make it a special application for multi-view stereo reconstruction algorithms. In this work we analize different types of methods for dense reconstruction from wide base-line views. Besides that we select a method which was adapted and implemented for the specific case of rock glacier modelling. Principally we add two suitable innovations: implement a pyramidal image structure for get more efficient computation and use a feature-based method to obtain a initial terrain surface and improve the depth estimation. The proposed method has been tested in a real rock glacier example (Veleta in Sierra Nevada, Spain) with good results.	PT: B	 	Sablatnig, R Kampel, M Lettner,M.	 	 	 	 				 	978-0-7695-3790-0	 	"[de Matias Bejarano, Javier; Moreno del Pozo, Jose] Univ Extremadura, Dpto Ingn Sistemas Informat & Telemat, Caceres, Spain.; jmatias@unex.es; josemore@unex.es; jguerrer@unizar.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1109/VSMM.2009.30	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"De Matias,J.;Guerrero,J. J.;Moreno,J.;De Sanjose,J. J."	Image Measurement Techniques in Rock Glacier Modelling	Proceedings of the Isprs Commission V Mid-Term Symposium Close Range Image Measurement Techniques	 	2010	 	38	 	189	194	"Photogrammetry;Computer Vision;Geomorphology;Rock glacier;Physical Geography;Remote Sensing;Imaging Science & Photographic Technology ER"	Rock glacier is a rare case of study for 3D modelling. We use a stereo feature-based method and multi-view stereo reconstruction algorithms to get different types of cartography. The proposed method has been tested in a real rock glacier example (Veleta in Sierra Nevada, Spain) for producing maps with good results. This rock glacier is of high scientific interest because it is the southernmost active rock glacier in Europe and it has been analyzed every year since 2001. The research on the Veleta rock glacier is devoted to the study of its displacement and cartography through geodetic and photogrammetric techniques.	"PT: S; PN: 5"	 	Mills, JP Barber, DM Miller, PE Newton,I.	International Archives of the Photogrammetry Remote Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences	 	 	 				 	2194-9034	 	"[De Matias, J.; Moreno, J.] Univ Extremadura, Dpto Ing Sist Inf & Telemat, Caceres, Spain.; De Matias, J (reprint author), Univ Extremadura, Dpto Ing Sist Inf & Telemat, Caceres, Spain.; jmatias@unex.es; jguerrer@unizar.es; josemore@unex.es; jjblasco@unex.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"de Matias,Javier;Juan de Sanjose,Jose;Lopez-Nicolas,Gonzalo;Saguees,Carlos;Jesus Guerrero,Jose"	Photogrammetric Methodology for the Production of Geomorphologic Maps: Application to the Veleta Rock Glacier (Sierra Nevada, Granada, Spain)	Remote Sensing	 	2009	DEC	1	4	829	841	"Sierra Nevada (Spain);rock glacier;photogrammetry;computer vision;matching;Remote Sensing ER"	In this paper we present a stereo feature-based method using SIFT (Scale-invariant feature transform) descriptors. We use automatic feature extractors, matching algorithms between images and techniques of robust estimation to produce a DTM (Digital Terrain Model) using convergent shots of a rock glacier. The geomorphologic structure observed in this study is the Veleta rock glacier (Sierra Nevada, Granada, Spain). This rock glacier is of high scientific interest because it is the southernmost active rock glacier in Europe and it has been analyzed every year since 2001. The research on the Veleta rock glacier is devoted to the study of its displacement and cartography through geodetic and photogrammetric techniques.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	2072-4292	 	"[Juan de Sanjose, Jose] Univ Extremadura, Dept Expres Graf, Caceres, Spain. [de Matias, Javier] Univ Extremadura, Dept Ingn Sistemas Informat, Caceres, Spain. [Lopez-Nicolas, Gonzalo; Saguees, Carlos; Jesus Guerrero, Jose] Univ Zaragoza, DIIS, Zaragoza, Spain. [Lopez-Nicolas, Gonzalo; Saguees, Carlos; Jesus Guerrero, Jose] Univ Zaragoza, Inst Invest Ingn Aragon I3A, Zaragoza, Spain.; de Sanjose, JJ (reprint author), Univ Extremadura, Dept Expres Graf, Caceres, Spain.; jmatias@unex.es; jjblasco@unex.es; gonlopez@unizar.es; csagues@unizar.es; jguerrer@unizar.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3390/rs1040829	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"De Sanjose,J. J.;Berenguer,F.;Atkinson,A. D. J.;De Matias,J.;Serrano,E.;Gomez-Ortiz,A.;Gonzalez-Garcia,M.;Rico,I."	Geomatics Techniques Applied to Glaciers, Rock Glaciers, and Ice Patches in Spain (1991-2012)	Geografiska Annaler Series A-Physical Geography	 	2014	SEP	96	3	307	321	"cartography;climate change;geomatics;rock glaciers;PERMAFROST CREEP;KINEMATIC GPS;SWISS ALPS;DYNAMICS;PYRENEES;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	At present there is a wide variety of geomatic techniques available to determine the dynamics of glaciers, rock glaciers and ice patches. Between 1991 and 2012, different geomatic techniques - total station, global positioning system, close-range photogrammetry and terrestrial laser scanner - were applied to monitor the movement of cryosphere landforms in the high mountains of the Iberian Peninsula. The applied techniques must be adapted to the dynamic conditions of cryospheric environments, and so there is no ideal general technique, and depending on the characteristics of the geomorphological structure to be studied, different geomatic techniques can be used. However, there are situations in which certain instruments cannot be used: global positioning system-real time kinematics shows difficulties when the presence of vertical walls cause a multipath' effect. The technique that provides the best results in each case must be chosen, although they can all give good results in measuring and monitoring geomorphological processes. This paper analyses the techniques used and results on vertical and horizontal changes of glaciers, rock glaciers and ice patches in the Sierra Nevada, Pyrenees and Picos de Europa, and differences among them by location and topoclimatic setting. All glaciers and rock glaciers show a thinning tendency and annual variations in the flow velocity. In addition to the specific dynamic analysis, the geomatic techniques can be used to detail scale and volume changes and perimeter of the analysed landforms.	"PT: J; SI: SI"	 		 	 	 	 				 	0435-3676	 	"[De Sanjose, J. J.; Berenguer, F.; Atkinson, A. D. J.; De Matias, J.] Univ Extremadura, Dept Graph Express, Escuela Politecn, Caceres 10003, Spain. [Serrano, E.] Univ Valladolid, Dept Geog, E-47011 Valladolid, Spain. [Gomez-Ortiz, A.] Univ Barcelona, Dept Geog & Reg Geog Anal, E-08007 Barcelona, Spain. [Gonzalez-Garcia, M.] Univ Malaga, Dept Geog, E-29071 Malaga, Spain. [Rico, I.] Univ Basque Country, Dept Geog Prehist & Archeol, Vitoria 01006, Spain.; De Sanjose, JJ (reprint author), Univ Extremadura, Dept Graph Express, Escuela Politecn, Ave Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain.; jjblasco@unex.es; ferbese1@gmail.com; atkinson@unex.es; jmatias@unex.es; serranoe@fyl.uva.es; gomez@ub.edu; maria__gonzalez@hotmail.com; ibai.rico@ehu.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/geoa.12047	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"de Sanjose-Blasco,Jose Juan;Atkinson-Gordo,Alan D. J.;Salvador-Franch,Ferran;Gomez-Ortiz,Antonio"	Application of geomatic techniques to monitoring of the dynamics and to mapping of the Veleta rock glacier (Sierra Nevada, Spain)	Zeitschrift Fur Geomorphologie	 	2007	NOV	51	 	79	89	"DEL VELETA;PERMAFROST;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	The highest peaks in the Iberian Peninsula and the southernmost active rock glacier in Europe can be found in Sierra Nevada. Its formation is recent and it is associated with the process of the deglaciation that the Corral del Veleta underwent at the end of the Little Ice Age. The rock glacier was formed from an accumulation of heavy boulders in a permafrost environment. At present, the rock glacier shows activity. In order to calculate the annual movement, 14 rods were initially placed on its surface in the year 2001. The dynamic monitoring of the rods was carried out using two geomatics methods: 1) a geodetic survey using a total station, and 2) the application of a precise global positioning system (GPS). The results have shown generalized activity over the entire rock glacier, although sites showing vertical displacement (sinking) predominated over those showing horizontal displacement (advance). For the mapping of the entire rock glacier, close range photogrammetry was used.	"PT: J; SU: 2"	 		 	 	 	 				 	0372-8854	 	"[de Sanjose-Blasco, Jose Juan; Atkinson-Gordo, Alan D. J.] Univ Extremadura, Area Ingn Cartograf Geodes & Fotogrametria, Dept Expres Graf, Caceres 10071, Spain. [Salvador-Franch, Ferran] Univ Barcelona, Dept Geog Fis & Anal Geograf Reg, E-08028 Barcelona, Spain.; de Sanjose-Blasco, JJ (reprint author), Univ Extremadura, Area Ingn Cartograf Geodes & Fotogrametria, Dept Expres Graf, Caceres 10071, Spain.; jjblasco@unex.es; atkinson@unex.es; fsalvador@ub.edu; gomez@ub.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1127/0372-8854/2007/0051S2-0079	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"de Vicente,Inmaculada;Andersen,Frede Ostergaard;Hansen,Hans Christian Bruun;Cruz-Pizarro,Luis;Jensen,Henning Skovgaard"	Water level fluctuations may decrease phosphate adsorption capacity of the sediment in oligotrophic high mountain lakes	Hydrobiologia	Hydrobiologia	2010	SEP	651	1	253	264	"Phosphorus;P-release;Metal oxides;Desiccation;Climate change;MARSH GARCINES NORD;VEGETATION INTERACTIONS;SOLAR-RADIATION;ORGANIC-MATTER;SIERRA-NEVADA;IRON;AIR;PHYTOPLANKTON;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	The effect of sediment desiccation and re-wetting on phosphate adsorption and desorption properties was examined in two oligotrophic high mountain lakes (La Caldera and Rio Seco, altitude similar to 3000 m) in the Sierra Nevada National Park, Spain. Decrease in phosphate sorption properties was observed in transects from the littoral zone to dry land (up to the high water mark) in both lakes concomitantly with loss of amorphous oxides of iron and aluminum as revealed by oxalate and dithionite extractions. X-ray diffraction did not indicate increased amounts of crystalline metal oxides, but there was a loss of fine particles (< 20 mu m) with distance from the shore, probably due to wind erosion. Likely this explains the loss of amorphous metal oxides as they are often enriched in the fine sediment fraction. Changes in P-speciation toward less available pools were also observed as a result of desiccation. When re-wetted under oxic conditions, the sediments, especially those closest to the shore, released phosphate to the overlying water. The loss of adsorption capacity for phosphate upon re-wetting was associated with loss of amorphous iron oxides, and the changes appear to be non-reversible. Thus, both desiccation and re-wetting will lead to a decrease in sediment phosphate sorption capacity and increased water level fluctuations, a possible scenario in climate change, can therefore increase P availability in the water column of these oligotrophic systems.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0018-8158	 	"[de Vicente, Inmaculada; Andersen, Frede Ostergaard; Jensen, Henning Skovgaard] Univ So Denmark, Inst Biol, DK-5230 Odense M, Denmark. [de Vicente, Inmaculada; Cruz-Pizarro, Luis] Univ Granada, Water Res Inst, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Hansen, Hans Christian Bruun] Univ Copenhagen, Dept Basic Sci & Environm, Fac Life Sci, DK-1871 Frederiksberg C, Denmark.; Jensen, HS (reprint author), Univ So Denmark, Inst Biol, Campusvej 55, DK-5230 Odense M, Denmark.; hsj@biology.sdu.dk"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10750-010-0304-x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"de Vicente,Inmaculada;Guerrero,Francisco;Jimenez-Gomez,Francisco;Cruz-Pizarro,Luis"	Settling and resuspended particles: A source or a sink of phosphate in two contrasting oligotrophic high mountain lakes?	Comptes Rendus Geoscience	 	2010	JAN	342	1	46	52	"Oligotrophic lakes;Sediment resuspension;SRP;Sedimentation;ORGANIC-MATTER;PHOSPHORUS;SESTON;RESERVOIR;SPAIN;WATER;PHYTOPLANKTON;EXCHANGE;RELEASE;Geology ER"	"This study focuses on two Mediterranean oligotrophic high mountain lakes located in the Sierra Nevada National Park (southern Spain): Rio Seco (RS) and La Caldera (LC). A combination of field measurements and laboratory experiments is used: (i) to quantify in situ settling fluxes; (ii) to study the soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP) release or uptake by settling and resuspended particles; and (iii) to discriminate between the biotic and abiotic contribution for such patterns. In general, all suspensions (lake water untreated and lake water enriched with settling and with resuspended matter) in both study lakes release significantly more SRP to the solution when biological activity was suppressed. Biological uptake from settling and resuspended matter is likely to be limited by the bacteria] consumption of P. Despite of these similarities, this study has revealed notable differences in the effect of sediment resuspension on SRP dynamics in both study lakes, when simulating natural conditions (biotic and abiotic processes). While in LC, the enrichment of lake water with settling and with resuspended matter did not cause an increase in SRP concentrations in lake water, SRP concentrations in RS at the end of the experiment were significantly higher (probability P < 0.05) in lake water enriched with resuspended matter (3.2 mu g/l) than in natural lake water (lower than the detection limit). Accordingly, it is reasonable to expect that sediment resuspension, which occurs more frequently in RS compared with LC, affects drastically the SRP availability in the water column in RS. (C) 2009 Academie des sciences. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1631-0713	 	"[de Vicente, Inmaculada; Cruz-Pizarro, Luis] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Guerrero, Francisco; Jimenez-Gomez, Francisco] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Jaen 23071, Spain.; de Vicente, I (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Campus Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; ivicente@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.crte.2009.10.004	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Delgado-Molina,J. A.;Medina-Sanchez,J. M.;Villar-Argaiz,M.;Bullejos-Carrillo,F. J.;Carrillo,P."	Induced algal community changes by UV radiation and nutrient inputs: A long-term experimental study in Lake La Caldera (Sierra Nevada, Spain)	International Association of Theoretical and Applied Limnology, Vol 30, Pt 6, Proceedings	 	2009	 	30	 	919	922	"Algal structure;long-term scale;P-input;UV radiation;ULTRAVIOLET-RADIATION;SEASONAL SUCCESSION;SPECIES COMPOSITION;SOLAR-RADIATION;MOUNTAIN LAKE;PHYTOPLANKTON;GROWTH;PHOSPHORUS;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	 	"PT: S; PN: 6"	 	Jones,J. Faaborg,J.	International Association of Theoretical and Applied Limnology Proceedings	 	 	 				 	"0368-0770; 978-3-510-54077-8"	 	"[Delgado-Molina, J. A.; Medina-Sanchez, J. M.; Villar-Argaiz, M.; Bullejos-Carrillo, F. J.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Granada, Spain.; Delgado-Molina, JA (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Granada, Spain.; jadelmo@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Diaz-Miguel,M.;Castro,J.;Garcia,P. A."	Seed germination after freezing in high-mountain plant species: Implications for ski-run restoration	Phyton-International Journal of Experimental Botany	 	2014	 	83	 	423	429	"Germination;High-mountain plant species;Plant-growth regulators;Ski-slope restoration;Soil freezing;VEGETATION;SOIL;PISTES;AREAS;SLOPES;SNOW;COLONIZATION;TEMPERATURE;PERFORMANCE;ECOLOGY;Plant Sciences ER"	The construction of a ski slope implies a strong environmental impact as a result of the removal of the vegetation cover. The need to protect the soil requires a rapid restoration of vegetation, which is often done with commercial seed mixtures that can cause a negative impact on these high mountain ecosystems. Thus, the use of seeds of native species is essential, especially in areas rich in endemic species. The compaction of snow as a result of the preparation of the ski slopes causes the soil to freeze. This hinders the germination of seeds, especially those of shrub species. This paper analyzes, under laboratory conditions, how freezing and phytohormone application affect the seed germination of three endemic shrubby species used in the restoration of the ski slopes on Sierra Nevada (S. Spain). Freezing considerably reduced the germination of all species. However, when seeds were previously subjected to phytohormones, the germination percentage increased up to 10-fold with respect to seeds not treated with growth regulators. The results suggest that treating seeds with phytohormones could improve the restoration of the ski slopes with native species.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1851-5657	 	"[Diaz-Miguel, M.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Fisiol Vegetal, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Castro, J.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Garcia, P. A.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Estadist & Invest, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Diaz-Miguel, M (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Fisiol Vegetal, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; diazmig@ugu.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Duran Zuazo,Victor Hugo;Francia Martinez,Jose Ramon;Garcia Tejero,Ivan;Rodriguez Pleguezuelo,Carmen Rocio;Martinez Raya,Armando;Cuadros Tavira,Simon"	Runoff and sediment yield from a small watershed in southeastern Spain (Lanjaron): implications for water quality	Hydrological Sciences Journal-Journal Des Sciences Hydrologiques	 	2012	Nov-01	57	8	1610	1625	"land-use type;streamflow;Mediterranean watershed;water quality;Lanjaron, Sierra Nevada Mountains;Spain;LAND-COVER CHANGE;MEDITERRANEAN MOUNTAIN CATCHMENT;HYDROLOGICAL;RESPONSE;SOIL-EROSION;FOREST;EVAPOTRANSPIRATION;VEGETATION;NITROGEN;PYRENEES;IMPACT;Water Resources ER"	"This study presents an analysis of three hydrological years (2007/08, 2008/09 and 2009/10) of precipitation, runoff and sediment yield collected from a small (669.7 ha) semi-arid watershed in southeastern Spain (Lanjaron). At the watershed outlet the runoff, suspended sediment concentration, total solute concentrations and dissolved nutrients (N-NO3, N-NH4, H2PO4 and K) in streamflow were continuously monitored. The runoff was highly variable, ranging between 53.4 and 154.7 mm year(-1), with an average of 97.6 mm year(-1). In contrast, sediment yields were more regular, averaging 1.8 Mg ha(-1) year(-1). The hydrological response of the watershed depended mainly on rainfall intensity. Formerly, 32% of the watershed was forested and runoff was more regular, despite the typical Mediterranean rainfall cycle; however, due to forest area reduction to 17% and the increase in abandoned farmland area (18%) in recent decades, the runoff variability has increased. Greater amounts of solutes (32.7 Mg ha(-1) year(-1)) were exported, so that this water is considered as poor for irrigation use. The temporal nutrient export was related to seasonal discharge fluctuations as well as daily concentrations. In addition, the nutrient concentrations of the water discharged were lower than threshold limits cited in water-quality standards for agricultural use and for potable water, with the exception of K (65.9 mg L-1), which may degrade surface waters as well as irrigated soils. Thus, hydrological and erosive processes depended on the watershed features, but also on prior conditions in combination with the characteristics of rainfall episodes."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0262-6667	 	"[Duran Zuazo, Victor Hugo; Garcia Tejero, Ivan] IFAPA Ctr Las Torres Tomejil, E-41200 Seville, Spain. [Francia Martinez, Jose Ramon; Rodriguez Pleguezuelo, Carmen Rocio; Martinez Raya, Armando] IFAPA Ctr, E-18080 Granada, Spain. [Cuadros Tavira, Simon] Univ Cordoba, E-14071 Cordoba, Spain.; Zuazo, VHD (reprint author), IFAPA Ctr Las Torres Tomejil, E-41200 Seville, Spain.; victorh.duran@juntadeandalucia.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1080/02626667.2012.726994	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"El Hamdouni,R.;Irigaray,C.;Fernandez,T.;Chacon,J.;Keller,E. A."	Assessment of relative active tectonics, southwest border of the Sierra Nevada (southern Spain)	Geomorphology	Geomorphology	2008	Apr-01	96	01-Feb	150	173	"tectonic geomorphology;geomorphic indices of active tectonics;Sierra Nevada;betic cordillera;southern Spain;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	We present a new method for evaluating relative active tectonics based on geomorphic indices useful in evaluating morphology and topography. Indices used include: stream length-gradient index (SL), drainage basin asymmetry (At), hypsometric integral (Hi), ratio of valley-floor width to valley height (Vf), index of drainage basin shape (Bs), and index of mountain front sinuosity (Smf). Results from the analysis are accumulated and expressed as an index of relative active tectonics (Iat), which we divide into four classes from relatively low to highest tectonic activity. The study area along the southwest border of the Sierra Nevada in southern Spain is an ideal location to test the concept of an index to predict relative tectonic activity on a basis of area rather than a single valley or mountain front. The study area has variable rates of active tectonics resulting from the collision of Africa with Europe that has produced linear east-west anticlinal forms, as well as extension with variable vertical rates of normal faulting to about 0.5 m/ky. We test the hypothesis that areas of known, relatively high rates of active tectonics are associated with indicatives values of Iat. (c) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0169-555X	 	"[El Hamdouni, R.; Irigaray, C.; Chacon, J.] Univ Granada, Dept Civil Engn, ETSICCP, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Fernandez, T.] Univ Jaen, Dept Photogrammetry & Geodet & Mapping Engn, Jaen, Spain. [Keller, E. A.] Univ Calif Santa Barbara, Dept Earth Sci, Santa Barbara, CA 93106 USA.; Chacon, J (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Civil Engn, ETSICCP, Campus Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; rachidej@ugr.es; clemente@ugr.es; jchacon@ugr.es; keller@geol.ucsb.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.geomorph.2007.08.004	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Eyer,P. A.;Leniaud,L.;Darras,H.;Aron,S."	Hybridogenesis through thelytokous parthenogenesis in two Cataglyphis desert ants	Molecular ecology	Mol.Ecol.	2013	FEB	22	4	947	955	"ants;genetic caste determination;genetic lineages;parthenogenesis;social hybridogenesis;POGONOMYRMEX HARVESTER ANTS;CLONAL;REPRODUCTION;FIRE ANT;VOLLENHOVIA-EMERYI;HYMENOPTERA;POPULATION;SYSTEM;FORMICIDAE;PATERNITY;Biochemistry & Molecular Biology;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Evolutionary Biology ER"	Hybridogenesis is a sexual reproductive system, whereby parents from different genetic origin hybridize. Both the maternal and paternal genomes are expressed in somatic tissues, but the paternal genome is systematically excluded from the germ line, which is therefore purely maternal. Recently, a unique case of hybridogenesis at a social level was reported in the desert ant Cataglyphis hispanica. All workers are sexually produced hybridogens, whereas sexual forms (new queens and males) are produced by queens through parthenogenesis. Thus, only maternal genes are perpetuated across generations. Here, we show that such an unusual reproductive strategy also evolved in two other species of Cataglyphis belonging to the same phylogenetic group, Cataglyphis velox and Cataglyphis mauritanica. In both species, queens mate exclusively with males originating from a different genetic lineage than their own to produce hybrid workers, while they use parthenogenesis to produce the male and female reproductive castes. In contrast to single-queen colonies of C. hispanica, colonies of C. velox and C. mauritanica are headed by several queens. Most queens within colonies share the same multilocus genotype and never transmit their mates' alleles to the reproductive castes. Social hybridogenesis in the desert ants has direct consequences on the genetic variability of populations and on caste determination. We also discuss the maintenance of this reproductive strategy within the genus Cataglyphis.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0962-1083	 	"[Eyer, P. A.; Leniaud, L.; Darras, H.; Aron, S.] Univ Libre Brussels, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium.; Eyer, PA (reprint author), Univ Libre Brussels, 50,Av FD Roosevelt,CP 160-12, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium.; piereyer@ulb.ac.be"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/mec.12141	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Farines,Bernard;Calvet,Marc;Gunnell,Yanni"	The summit erosion surfaces of the inner Betic Cordillera: Their value as tools for reconstructing the chronology of topographic growth in southern Spain	Geomorphology	Geomorphology	2015	Mar-15	233	 	92	111	"Betic Cordillera;Erosion surface;Pediment;Messinian salinity crisis;Tectonic geomorphology;Topographic uplift;BASIN SE SPAIN;NEVADO-FILABRIDE COMPLEX;APATITE FISSION-TRACK;STRIKE-SLIP FAULTS;DE-GATA REGION;SIERRA-NEVADA;SORBAS BASIN;ACTIVE TECTONICS;UPPER MIOCENE;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	Erosion surfaces at the top of mountain ranges have suggested to geomorphologists that the Earth's crust can undergo rapid pulses of uplift during which rates of denudation fail to balance with rates of crustal uplift thereby preserving much of the initial plateau topography as it rises to greater elevations. Here we analyze a regionally extensive population of mappable planar surfaces, which crown several major, tectonically active sierras of the inner southeastern Betic Cordillera, SE Spain. Based on a synthesis of long-term landscape evolution involving landform reconnaissance, DEM-based morphometric analysis, structural geology, sediment provenance analysis, and field stratigraphy, we conclude that the summit surfaces are a mosaic of discrete, post-orogenic erosion surfaces that each developed in relation to Mediterranean marine base levels at a time when the sierras formed a series of low-elevation islands. They are not, therefore, fragments of a once regionally continuous paleoplain. The summit surfaces were partly the result of shallow-angle detachment faulting during the middle Miocene in response to lithospheric slab detachment. Where evidence exists that the resulting low-relief topography was reworked by marine abrasion during the Tortonian sea-level rise, the terminal age of the surfaces is latest Miocene. Age-bracketing based on strati-graphic correlations among the many depocentres of the region and on published thermochronological data indicates that some erosion surfaces locally formed in less than 3 million years (similar to 8 Ma-5.7 Ma). They were subsequently uplifted to their current elevations (1.7 to > 2 km) by Pliocene to Quaternary neotectonics in at least two major pulses. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	"PT: J; SI: SI"	 		 	 	 	 				 	0169-555X	 	"[Farines, Bernard; Calvet, Marc] Univ Perpignan Via Domitia, CNRS UMR 7194, Hist Nat Homme Prehist, Perpignan, France. [Gunnell, Yanni] Univ Lyon, CNRS UMR Environm 5600, Ville, Societe, France.; Gunnell, Y (reprint author), Univ Lyon, CNRS UMR Environm 5600, Ville, Societe, France.; yanni.gunnell@univ-lyon2.fr"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.geomorph.2014.11.019	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fernandes,Paulo M.;Luz,Ana;Loureiro,Carlos"	Changes in wildfire severity from maritime pine woodland to contiguous forest types in the mountains of northwestern Portugal	Forest Ecology and Management	For.Ecol.Manage.	2010	Jul-30	260	5	883	892	"Fire ecology;Fuel;Deciduous and evergreen broadleaved forest;Short-needled conifer forest;Mediterranean forest;CATALONIA NORTHEAST SPAIN;FIRE SEVERITY;CROWN FIRE;UNITED-STATES;MEDITERRANEAN BASIN;KLAMATH MOUNTAINS;SPATIAL-PATTERNS;PRESCRIBED;FIRE;BOREAL FOREST;SIERRA-NEVADA;Forestry ER"	Large and severe wildfires are now widespread in the Mediterranean Basin. Fire severity is important to ecosystem properties and processes and to forest management but it has been neglected by wildland fire research in Europe. In this study, we compare fire severity between maritime pine (PS) woodland and other forest (OF) types, identify other variables influent on fire severity, and describe its variation. We sampled contiguous, paired stands of PS and OF cover types - including deciduous and evergreen broadleaves and short-needled mountain conifers - that burned under very high to extreme fire danger in northwestern Portugal. Data on stand characteristics and fire severity metrics were collected in plots along transects perpendicular to the PS-OF boundary. Fire severity was rated in separate for the tree canopy, understorey vegetation and forest floor layers, and then an average (composite) fire severity rating was calculated. Fire intensity inferred from stem char height (adjusted for the effects of other factors) was highest in PS, followed by deciduous broadleaved woodland and short-needled conifer forest. With a few exceptions, all fire severity ratings were significantly different between PS and OF at all sites. Most fire severity metrics and ratings were correlated. The distance for fire severity minimization did not differ between OF types (median = 21 m). Variation in composite fire severity was accounted for by a classification tree (R(2) = 0.44) based on cover type (contributing with 51% to the overall explanation), stand variables, aspect, distance to the PS-OF edge and fire spread pattern. Except for a more immediate decline in deciduous broadleaves, fire severity rating was not affected by OF type and tended to decrease in more mature stands and moister aspects. The fire severity moderation from PS to OF was compounded by a dominant pattern of down slope fire propagation into moister topographical positions, exacerbating the fuel effect implicit in the cover type change. The results are consistent with fire hazard and fire incidence studies and support conventional knowledge that advocates the expansion of broadleaved deciduous or evergreen forest as a means to achieve more fire-resilient ecosystems and landscapes. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0378-1127	 	"[Fernandes, Paulo M.; Loureiro, Carlos] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Ctr Invest & Tecnol Agroambientals & Tecnol CITAB, P-5001801 Vila Real, Portugal. [Fernandes, Paulo M.; Luz, Ana; Loureiro, Carlos] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Ciencias Florestais & Arquitectura Paisagist, P-5001801 Vila Real, Portugal.; Fernandes, PM (reprint author), Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Ctr Invest & Tecnol Agroambientals & Tecnol CITAB, Apartado 1013, P-5001801 Vila Real, Portugal.; pfern@utad.pt; luzanalu@gmail.com; clour@utad.pt"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.foreco.2010.06.008	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fernandez Calzado,M. R.;Molero Mesa,J.;Merzouki,A.;Casares Porcel,M."	Vascular plant diversity and climate change in the upper zone of Sierra Nevada, Spain	Plant Biosystems	 	2012	 	146	4	1044	1053	"Altitude gradient;biodiversity;climate change;endemics plants;mountain;temperature;ENDEMIC PLANTS;SOUTHERN SPAIN;GLOBAL CHANGE;ALPINE ZONE;FLORA;RISK;LIFE;VULNERABILITY;COMMUNITIES;Plant Sciences ER"	"This study examines the effects of altitudinal, temperature and aspect gradients on vascular plant species richness on mountain tops in Sierra Nevada (Spain) at different spatial scales (1 m(2) quadrats, plot clusters of 4 m(2), upper summit area down to the 5-m contour line, entire summit down to the 10-m contour line). The methodology follows the Global Observation Research Initiative in Alpine Environments (GLORIA) programme. Floristic and soil temperature data of eight summits sites in two neighbouring regions of the high part of Sierra Nevada (from 2668 m to 3327 m a.s.l.) were used in this study. In total, 102 taxa were recorded (84 genera; 29 families). The species richness decreased, whereas the proportion of endemic taxa increased with elevation. There were significant linear relationships between species richness and altitude and average soil temperature at each spatial scale. However, there was no significant relationship between species richness and aspect variables. Facing continued climate change, the high-altitude flora of Sierra Nevada is expected to be particularly vulnerable and prone to warming-induced biodiversity losses due to the high proportion of endemic taxa, ranging from 23% at lower elevations up to 67% at higher ones."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1126-3504	 	"[Fernandez Calzado, M. R.; Molero Mesa, J.; Merzouki, A.; Casares Porcel, M.] Univ Granada, Fac Pharm, Dept Bot, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Calzado, MRF (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Pharm, Dept Bot, Campus Cartuja, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; rosafc@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1080/11263504.2012.710273	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fernandez Calzado,Ma Rosa;Molero Mesa,Joaquin;Merzouki,Abderrahmane"	Monitoring plant diversity and climatic change in Sierra Nevada (Spain)	Acta Botanica Gallica	Acta Bot.Gallica	2010	DEC	157	4	669	676	"mountains;Gloria;climatic change;plant biodiversity;temperatures;MOUNTAIN PLANTS;BIODIVERSITY;VEGETATION;Plant Sciences ER"	"The aim of this paper is to analyse the vascular flora and temperature data in the highest zone of the Sierra Nevada massif (Sierra Nevada National Park) and evaluate the potential effects of climatic change on the biodiversity of this zone. The floristic and temperature data have been recorded using the methodology of the European Gloria Project. The floristic analysis shows that the species richness decreases with the altitude (2778-3327 m) from 47 up to 18, at the same time increasing the percentage of endemism. 39% of species only live on single summits and 8% of the flora exists on all of the summits; chamaephytes and hemicryptophytes are the most common life forms. The temperature data was analysed in the period of 2001-2005. Overall, there is a 4.42 degrees C decrease in mean temperature from the lowest to the highest summit (range of 549 m)."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1253-8078	 	"[Fernandez Calzado, Ma Rosa; Molero Mesa, Joaquin; Merzouki, Abderrahmane] Fac Farm, Dpto Bot, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Merzouki, Abderrahmane] Univ Abdelmalek Essaadi, Fac Sci, Lab Ethnobot, Dpt Biol, Tetouan 2121, Morocco.; Calzado, MRF (reprint author), Fac Farm, Dpto Bot, Campus Cartuja, E-18071 Granada, Spain."	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fernandez Prieto,Jose Antonio;Molero Mesa,Joaquin;Perez Suarez,Marta;Sanna,Mauro;Munoz Diaz,Jose Miguel;Cires,Eduardo"	Are they different species or vicariant elevational races of the same species? The case of an Iberian endemic plant, Ranunculus bupleuroides (Ranunculaceae)	Phytotaxa	 	2015	Dec-24	239	3	242	252	"endemism;integrative taxonomy;Mediterranean;molecular markers;mountain flora;phylogeny;section Ranuncella;species complex;KUEPFERI RANUNCULACEAE;PHYLOGENETIC ANALYSIS;DNA-SEQUENCES;EVOLUTIONARY;SPAIN;CLASSIFICATION;VEGETATION;GEOSERIES;TORTOISE;APOMIXIS;Plant Sciences ER"	The infrageneric taxonomy and evolution of Ranunculus are still not well understood. In this regard, we investigated the origin and genetic diversity of the Iberian endemic plant Ranunculus bupleuroides s.l. by analysis of nuclear internal transcribed spacers (ITS) and plastid (rpl32-trnL, rps16-trnQ, trnK-matK, ycf6-psbM) sequence data. Phylogenetic analysis reveals two geographically well supported subclades: one formed by high mountain plants and another by more typical samples of Ranunculus bupleuroides from the lowlands of the western Iberian Peninsula. The subclade of montane plants includes both plants originating in Gredos and Bejar (Ranunculus cherubicus subsp. cherubicus) and those from Sierra Nevada (R. cherubicus subsp. girelai). In the light of the new molecular results obtained, combined with an assessment of morphological, geographical and ecological characters, a new systematic treatment is proposed.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1179-3155	 	"[Fernandez Prieto, Jose Antonio; Perez Suarez, Marta; Sanna, Mauro; Cires, Eduardo] Univ Oviedo, Dept Biol Organismos & Sistemas, Area Bot, E-33071 Oviedo, Spain. [Molero Mesa, Joaquin] Univ Granada, Dept Bot F Farm, Granada 180072, Spain. [Munoz Diaz, Jose Miguel] Agencia Medio Ambiente & Agua, Junta Andalucia, Granada 18013, Spain.; Cires, E (reprint author), Univ Oviedo, Dept Biol Organismos & Sistemas, Area Bot, C Catedrat Rodrigo Uria S-N, E-33071 Oviedo, Spain.; cireseduardo@gmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fernandez,Carlos;Czeck,Dyanna M.;Diaz-Azpiroz,Manuel"	Testing the model of oblique transpression with oblique extrusion in two natural cases: Steps and consequences	Journal of Structural Geology	J.Struct.Geol.	2013	SEP	54	 	85	102	"Transpression;Shear zones;Triclinic fabrics;Inclined extrusion;Rainy Lake District;Southern Iberian shear zone;SUPERIOR PROVINCE;SHEAR ZONE;DEFORMATION PATH;METAMORPHIC BELT;NORTHERN MINNESOTA;SOUTHWEST SPAIN;SIERRA-NEVADA;NEW-ZEALAND;STRAIN;CANADA;Geology ER"	Kinematic models of various types of transpression have been used to explain fabric features and strain in many natural deformation studies. Here, a mathematical model that encompasses all monoclinic and triclinic transpressional deformations including triclinic deformation with inclined simple shear (phi) and/or inclined extrusion orientations (nu) can be tested using a step-by-step approach with available field evidence. Two cases are presented. The first case from the Wabigoon-Quetico boundary in the Archean Superior Province utilizes both fabric orientation and quantified strain data. The best fit of the field evidence to the model indicates that deformation likely took place along subvertical shear zones via transpression with subhorizontal simple shear (phi = 0-20 degrees) and variable inclined extrusion direction (extrusion can be either east or west and v typically indicates extrusion orientations between 0 and 50 degrees from vertical). The second case of the South Iberian shear zone has fabric orientation data, but no quantifiable strain possibilities. The best fit of the field evidence to the model indicates that deformation likely took place along a moderately inclined shear zone via transpression with subhorizontal simple shear (phi = 0-20 degrees) and variable inclined extrusion direction (nu values between 0 degrees and 80 degrees from the true dip of the shear zone). Using this protocol in other examples of natural deformation will allow further constraints to be applied to kinematic models. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0191-8141	 	"[Fernandez, Carlos] Univ Huelva, Dept Geodinam & Paleontol, Huelva 21071, Spain. [Czeck, Dyanna M.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Geosci, Milwaukee, WI 53211 USA. [Diaz-Azpiroz, Manuel] Univ Pablo Olavide, Dpto Sistemas Fis Quim & Nat, Seville 41013, Spain.; Fernandez, C (reprint author), Univ Huelva, Dept Geodinam & Paleontol, Campus El Carmen, Huelva 21071, Spain.; fcarlos@uhu.es; dyanna@uwm.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.jsg.2013.07.001	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fernandez-Ramos,C.;Ballesteros,O.;Blanc,R.;Zafra-Gomez,A.;Camino-Sanchez,F. J.;Navalon,A.;Vilchez,J. L."	Determination of alcohol sulfates and alcohol ethoxysulfates in marine and river sediments using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry	Talanta	Talanta	2013	Oct-15	115	 	606	615	"Anionic surfactants;Marine sediments;River sediments;Principal components analysis;LC-MS/MS;Pressurized liquid extraction;LINEAR ALKYLBENZENE-SULFONATES;TREATMENT-PLANT INFLUENTS;WASTE-WATER;NONIONIC SURFACTANTS;ALKYL ETHOXYSULFATES;METABOLITES;EFFLUENTS;BEHAVIOR;ACIDS;FATE;Chemistry ER"	A novel and successful method has been developed for the identification and quantification of alcohol sulfates (AS) homologues and alcohol ethoxysulfates (AES) ethoxymers in marine and river sediment samples. The method involves the extraction of 5.00 g of dry sample with methanol using pressurized liquid extraction (PLE) and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). 2-Octylbenzene sulfonic acid sodium salt (20C(8)-LAS) was used as internal standard. The analytical methods were applied to marine sediments collected from the coast of Almeria (South-east Spain) and river sediments collected from the Monachil river (Granada, South-east Spain). For AS homologues, the found limits of detection were 0.04-0.08 mu g g(-1) for marine and river sediments. For AES ethoxymers, the found limits of detection were 0.03-0.09 mu g g(-1) and 0.06-0.22 mu g g(-1) for marine and river sediments, respectively. The highest concentrations of AS and AES were found in river sediment samples. Significant differences were also observed between the behavior of short-chain compounds (C-12) and long-chain compounds (C-14 to C-18). The influence of the physic-chemical properties of water on the occurrence of these compounds was also evaluated, and differences between long- and short-chain compounds were also observed. Additionally, principal components analyses were carried out in order to study the relationship between variables and to evaluate the sources of data variability and behavior patterns. Finally, important conclusions were drawn regarding the environmental behavior of AS and AES. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0039-9140	 	"[Fernandez-Ramos, C.; Ballesteros, O.; Blanc, R.; Zafra-Gomez, A.; Camino-Sanchez, F. J.; Navalon, A.; Vilchez, J. L.] Univ Granada, Dept Analyt Chem, Res Grp Analyt Chem & Life Sci, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Blanc, R (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Analyt Chem, Res Grp Analyt Chem & Life Sci, Campus Fuentenueva, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; mrblanc@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.talanta.2013.05.058	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Figueroa,Felix L.;Korbee,Nathalie;Carrillo,Presentacion;Manuel Medina-Sanchez,Juan;Mata,Mayte;Bonomi,Jose;Sanchez-Castillo,Pedro M."	The effects of UV radiation on photosynthesis estimated as chlorophyll fluorescence in Zygnemopsis decussata (Chlorophyta) growing in a high mountain lake (Sierra Nevada, Southern Spain)	Journal of Limnology	 	2009	 	68	2	206	216	"chlorophyll fluorescence;high mountain lake;phenols;photosynthesis;UV radiation;Zygnemopsis decussata;LOW OZONE EVENT;ULTRAVIOLET-RADIATION;B RADIATION;MARINE MACROALGAE;SOLAR-RADIATION;CLIMATE-CHANGE;FOOD QUALITY;ALPINE LAKE;AMINO-ACIDS;ALGAE;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	"The effect of increased UV radiation on photosynthesis estimated as in vivo chlorophyll fluorescence i.e. optimal quantum yield (F-v/F-m) and electron transport rate (ETR) in the green filamentous alga Zygnemopsis decussata (Streptophyta, Zygnematales) growing in the high mountain lake ""La Caldera"" (Sierra Nevada, Spain) at 3050 m altitude was evaluated. Two sets of in situ experiments were conducted: (1) On July 2006, F-v/F-m was measured throughout the day at different depths (0.1, 0.25, 0.5 and 1 m) and in the afternoon. ETR and phenolic compounds were determined. In addition, in order to analyze the effect of UV radiation, F-v/F-m was determined in algae incubated for 3 days at 0.5m under three different light treatments: PAR+UVA+UVB (PAB). PAR+UVA (PA) and PAR (P). (2) On August 2007, F-v/F-m was determined under PAB, PA and P treatments and desiccation/rehydration conditions. F-v/F-m decreased in algae growing in surface waters (0.1 m) but also at 1 m depth compared to that at 0.5 in depth. The decrease of F-v/F-m at noon due to photoinhibition was small (less than 10%) except in algae growing at 1 m depth (44%). The maximal electron transport rate was 3.5-5 times higher in algae growing at 0.25-0.5 m respectively than that at 0.1 and 1 m depth. These results are related to the accumulation of phenolic compounds: i.e. the algae at 0.25-0.5 in presentedrespectively about a 3-5 times higher concentration of phenolic compounds than that of algae at 0.1-1 m depth. The protection mechanisms seem to be stimulated by UVB radiation, since F-v/F-m was higher in the presence of UVB (PAB treatment) compared to PA or P treatments. UVA exerts the main photoinhibitory effect, not Only at midday, but also in the afternoon. UVB radiation also had a protective effect in algae grown under desiccation conditions for three days. During re-hydration, the rapid increase of F-v/F-m (after 1 h) was higher in the UVB-grown algae than in algae grown under UVA radiation. After 5 h. F-v/F-m values were similar in algae submitted to desiccation/rehydration under PAB and P treatments as they were in the control (submerged algae). The combined effect of desiccation and UVA produced the greatest decrease of photosynthesis in Z. decussata. Thifs UVB, in contrast to other species, may support the recovery process. Z. decussata can acclimate to severe stress, conditions in this high mountain lake by the photoprotection mechanism induced by UVB radiation through dynamic photoinhibition and the accumulation of phenolic compounds (UV screen and antioxidant substances)."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1129-5767	 	"[Figueroa, Felix L.; Korbee, Nathalie; Mata, Mayte] Univ Malaga, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol & Geol, E-29071 Malaga, Spain. [Carrillo, Presentacion; Manuel Medina-Sanchez, Juan] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Bonomi, Jose] Univ Sao Paulo, Inst Biociencias, Dept Bot, BR-05422970 Sao Paulo, Brazil. [Sanchez-Castillo, Pedro M.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Biol Vegetal, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Figueroa, FL (reprint author), Univ Malaga, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol & Geol, E-29071 Malaga, Spain.; felix_lopez@uma.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3274/JL09-68-2-05	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Finn,Debra S.;Zamora-Munoz,Carmen;Murria,Cesc;Sainz-Bariain,Marta;Alba-Tercedor,Javier"	Evidence from recently deglaciated mountain ranges that Baetis alpinus (Ephemeroptera) could lose significant genetic diversity as alpine glaciers disappear	Freshwater Science	 	2014	MAR	33	1	207	216	"Baetis alpinus;population genetics;genetic diversity;climate change;alpine glaciers;cryptic species Europe;GLOBAL CLIMATE-CHANGE;FUTURE CHALLENGES;IBERIAN PENINSULA;RECENT;PROGRESS;STREAM INSECT;DNA TAXONOMY;LIFE-HISTORY;BIODIVERSITY;COLORADO;DIFFERENTIATION;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	Climate change will cause relict alpine glaciers to disappear within decades. Associated high-altitude streams will face significant hydrological changes that might affect population genetic diversity of lotic species. In a recent study of glacier-fed streams in the Pyrenees, Finn et al. (2013) predicted that a large proportion of regional genetic diversity of the mayfly Baetis alpinus would be lost as glacial meltwater sources disappear. We expanded the analysis of Finn et al. to include genetic data (mitochondrial barcoding region) collected from B. alpinus occupying recently deglaciated locations including multiple basins in 2 mountain ranges (Sierra Nevada and Picos de Europa) on the Iberian Peninsula and 1 additional, deglaciated Pyrenean basin. We hypothesized that regional genetic diversity at scales of entire mountain ranges (gamma diversity) and population structure within ranges (beta diversity) would be lower in recently deglaciated mountain ranges than in the still-glaciated Pyrenees. For 4 cryptic lineages of the B. alpinus species complex in 3 mountain ranges, we found significantly lower genetic diversity in recently deglaciated than glaciated regions. beta and gamma genetic diversity were correlated, suggesting that population structure (beta) strongly influences total regional diversity. Results support the hypothesis of Finn et al. (2013) that disappearance of alpine glaciers will result in substantial loss of genetic diversity. The distinctive hydrological environment created by glacial meltwater might drive an interaction between reproductive barriers (between highly and minimally glacier-influenced reaches within basins) and physical barriers (isolating highly glacier-influenced reaches	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	2161-9549	 	"[Finn, Debra S.] Oregon State Univ, Dept Zool, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA. [Finn, Debra S.] Univ Birmingham, Sch Geog Earth & Environm Sci, Edgbaston B15 2TT, W Midlands, England. [Zamora-Munoz, Carmen; Sainz-Bariain, Marta; Alba-Tercedor, Javier] Univ Granada, Fac Sci, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Murria, Cesc] Univ Barcelona, Fac Biol, Dept Ecol, Grp Recerca Freshwater Ecol & Management FEM, E-08028 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. [Murria, Cesc] Nat Hist Museum, Dept Entomol, London SW7 5BD, England.; Finn, DS (reprint author), Oregon State Univ, Dept Zool, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA.; finnd@science.oregonstate.edu; czamora@ugr.es; cmurria@gmail.com; msainzb@ugr.es; jalba@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1086/674361	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fletcher,William J.;Debret,Maxime;Goni,Maria Fernanda Sanchez"	Mid-Holocene emergence of a low-frequency millennial oscillation in western Mediterranean climate: Implications for past dynamics of the North Atlantic atmospheric westerlies	Holocene	Holocene	2013	FEB	23	2	153	166	"mid-Holocene transition;millennial-scale variability;North Atlantic Oscillation;pollen analysis;wavelet analysis;western Mediterranean;LAKE-LEVEL FLUCTUATIONS;EARLY HOLOCENE CLIMATE;SOUTHERN SPAIN;WINTER-PRECIPITATION;SCALE PERIODICITIES;SIERRA-NEVADA;KYR BP;VARIABILITY;RECORD;CIRCULATION;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	The nature and tempo of Holocene climate variability is examined in the record of forest vegetation from western Mediterranean marine core MD95-2043. Episodes of forest decline occurred at 10.1, 9.2, 8.3, 7.4, 5.4-4.5 and 3.7-2.9 cal. ka BP, and between 1.9 cal. ka BP and the top of the record (1.3 cal. ka BP). Wavelet analysis confirms a similar to 900 yr periodicity prior to and during the early Holocene and the dominance of a similar to 1750 yr periodicity after 6 cal. ka BP. The similar to 900 yr periodicity has counterparts in numerous North Atlantic and Northern Hemisphere palaeoclimate records, and in solar irradiance proxies (Delta C-14 and Be-10), and may relate to a Sun-climate connection during the early Holocene. Comparisons between the MD95-2043 forest record and strategically located records from Morocco, Iceland, Norway and Israel suggest that the similar to 1750 yr mid- to late-Holocene oscillation reflects shifts between a prevailing strong and weak state of the zonal flow, with impacts similar to the positive and negative modes of the present-day North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO). The mid-to late-Holocene millennial oscillation in zonal flow appears closely coupled to North Atlantic surface ocean circulation dynamics, and may have been driven by an internal oscillation in deep-water convection strength. The findings suggest that the mid-Holocene transition in western Mediterranean climate was accompanied by a shift in the fundamental tempo of millennial-scale variability, reflecting contrasting sensitivity of the North Atlantic climate system to different forcing factors (solar versus oceanic) under deglacial and fully interglacial conditions.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0959-6836	 	"[Fletcher, William J.; Goni, Maria Fernanda Sanchez] Univ Bordeaux 1, EPHE, F-33405 Talence, France. [Fletcher, William J.] Univ Manchester, Sch Environm & Dev, Manchester M13 9PL, Lancs, England. [Debret, Maxime] Univ Grenoble 1, F-38041 Grenoble, France. [Debret, Maxime] Univ Rouen, F-76821 Mont St Aignan, France.; Fletcher, WJ (reprint author), Univ Manchester, Sch Environm & Dev, Oxford Rd, Manchester M13 9PL, Lancs, England.; will.fletcher@manchester.ac.uk"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1177/0959683612460783	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fletcher,William J.;Goni,Maria Fernanda Sanchez"	Orbital- and sub-orbital-scale climate impacts on vegetation of the western Mediterranean basin over the last 48,000 yr	Quaternary Research	Quatern.Res.	2008	NOV	70	3	451	464	"Marine palynology;Land-sea correlation;Iberian margin;Mediterranean region;Dansgaard-Oeschger variability;Heinrich events;LGM;Holocene;Precession;ALBORAN SEA;IBERIAN PENINSULA;SOUTHERN SPAIN;ENVIRONMENTAL-CHANGE;POLLEN DISTRIBUTION;DANSGAARD-OESCHGER;SEGURA MOUNTAINS;AGE;CALIBRATION;GLACIAL MAXIMUM;MONTANE REGION;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	High-resolution pollen analysis of Alboran Sea Core MD95-2043 provides a 48-ka continuous vegetation record that can be directly correlated with sea surface and deep-water changes. The reliability of this record is supported by comparison with that of Padul (Sierra Nevada, Spain). Marine Isotope Stage (MIS) 3 was characterised by fluctuations in Quercus forest cover in response to Dansgaard-Oeschger climate variability. MIS 2 was characterised by the dominance of semi-desert vegetation. Despite overall dry and cold conditions during MIS 2, Heinrich events (HEs) 2 and 1 were distinguished from the last glacial maximum by more intensely and conditions. Taxon-specific vegetation responses to a tripartite climatic structure within the HEs are observed. In MIS 1, the Bolling-Allerod was marked by rapid afforestation, while a re-expansion of semi-desert environments occurred during the Younger Dryas. The maximum development of mixed Quercus forest occurred between 11.7 and 5.4 cal ka BP, with forest decline since 5.4 cal ka BP. On orbital timescales, a long-term expansion of semi-desert vegetation from MIS 3 into MIS 2 reflects global ice-volume trends, while Holocene arboreal decline reflects summer insolation decrease. The influence of precession on the amplitude of forest development and vegetation composition is also detected. (C) 2008 University of Washington. All rights reserved	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0033-5894	 	"[Fletcher, William J.; Goni, Maria Fernanda Sanchez] Univ Bordeaux 1, CNRS, EPOC, UMR 5805,Ecole Prat Hautes Etud, F-33405 Talence, France.; Fletcher, WJ (reprint author), Univ Bordeaux 1, CNRS, EPOC, UMR 5805,Ecole Prat Hautes Etud, Ave Fac, F-33405 Talence, France.; w.fletcher@epoc.u-bordeaux1.fr"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.yqres.2008.07.002	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fontana,Anne-Laure;Boucher,Catherine;Serres,Patrice;Bortolotti,Yves;Cope,Florence;Stil,Irvin;Lefranc,Bastien;Garnier,Olivier;Butin,Gilles;Mattiocco,Francois;Navarro,Santiago;John,Dave;Navarrini,Alessandro;Schuster,Karl-F"	A 3mm multipixel SIS receiver for IRAM 30-m Pico Veleta Telescope	Millimeter, Submillimeter, and Far-Infrared Detectors and Instrumentation for Astronomy Vi	 	2012	 	8452	 	84522E	84522E	"receiver array;quasi-optical system;Ortho Mode Transducer;waveguide components;millimeter waves;side band separating mixer;RF hybrid coupler;Astronomy & Astrophysics;Instruments & Instrumentation;Optics ER"	A 3mm band focal plane array heterodyne receiver is being developed for Nasmyth focus of the IRAM 30-m Pico Veleta Radio Telescope located in the Sierra Nevada Mountains, south of Spain. This receiver will comprise 25 dual linear polarization pixels operating across the 80-116GHz nominal band. Design efforts are being made to enlarge the band to cover the full 3mm atmospheric transmission window available at Pico Veleta, i.e. 72-116GHz. The instrument will be coupled to the Pico Veleta Telescope via a purely reflective low-loss optical system that includes a de-rotator. The receiver will be based on 5 x 5 cryogenically cooled dual-linear polarized feed horns cascaded with Ortho Mode Transducers (OMT) and side band separating SIS mixers, a technology which offers state-of-the-art performances for millimeter and sub-millimeter receivers.	PT: S	 	Holland,WS Zmuidzinas,J.	Proceedings of SPIE	 	 	 				 	"0277-786X; 978-0-8194-9153-4"	 	"[Fontana, Anne-Laure; Boucher, Catherine; Serres, Patrice; Bortolotti, Yves; Cope, Florence; Stil, Irvin; Lefranc, Bastien; Garnier, Olivier; Butin, Gilles; Mattiocco, Francois; Navarro, Santiago; John, Dave; Navarrini, Alessandro; Schuster, Karl-F.] IRAM, F-38400 St Martin Dheres, France.; Fontana, AL (reprint author), IRAM, 300 Rue Piscine, F-38400 St Martin Dheres, France."	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1117/12.926177	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fornieles-Callejon,J.;Salinas,A.;Toledo-Redondo,S.;Porti,J.;Mendez,A.;Navarro,E. A.;Morente-Molinera,J. A.;Soto-Aranaz,C.;Ortega-Cayuela,J. S."	Extremely low frequency band station for natural electromagnetic noise measurement	Radio Science	Radio Sci.	2015	MAR	50	3	191	201	"ELF station;Schumann resonance;IONOSPHERIC ALFVEN RESONATOR;METHODOLOGY;COMPONENTS;RESONANCES;SENSORS;SPECTRA;CAVITY;Astronomy & Astrophysics;Geochemistry & Geophysics;Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences;Remote Sensing;Telecommunications ER"	A new permanent ELF measurement station has been deployed in Sierra Nevada, Spain. It is composed of two magnetometers, oriented NS and EW, respectively. At 10 Hz, their sensitivity is 19 V/pT and the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) is 28 dB for a time-varying signal of 1 pT, the expected field amplitude in Sierra Nevada. The station operates for frequencies below 24 Hz. The magnetometers, together with their corresponding electronics, have been specifically designed to achieve such an SNR for small signals. They are based on high-resolution search coils with ferromagnetic core and 10(6) turns, operating in limited geometry configuration. Different system noise sources are considered, and a study of the SNR is also included. Finally, some initial Schumann resonance measurements are presented in order to validate the performance of the measurement station, including 1 h length spectra, daily variations of resonance amplitudes and frequencies for the different seasons, and a 3 day spectrogram.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0048-6604	 	"[Fornieles-Callejon, J.; Salinas, A.; Toledo-Redondo, S.; Mendez, A.; Soto-Aranaz, C.; Ortega-Cayuela, J. S.] Univ Granada, Dept Electromagnetism & Matter Phys, Granada, Spain. [Toledo-Redondo, S.] Swedish Inst Space Phys, Uppsala, Sweden. [Porti, J.] Univ Granada, Dept Appl Phys, Granada, Spain. [Navarro, E. A.] Univ Valencia, Dept Appl Phys, Valencia, Spain. [Morente-Molinera, J. A.] Univ Granada, Dept Comp Sci & Artificial Intelligence, Granada, Spain.; Salinas, A (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Electromagnetism & Matter Phys, Granada, Spain.; asalinas@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1002/2014RS005567	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fuertes Aguilar,Javier;Gutierrez Larena,Belen;Nieto Feliner,Gonzalo"	Genetic and morphological diversity in Armeria (Plumbaginaceae) is shaped by glacial cycles in Mediterranean refugia	Anales del Jardin Botanico de Madrid	An.Jard.Bot.Madrid	2011	JUL-DEC	68	2	175	197	"altitudinal gradient;glacial refugia;hybridization;Iberian Peninsula;phylogeography;reticulate evolution;Sierra Nevada;MULTILOCUS GENOTYPE DATA;RAPD MARKERS;MOLECULAR EVIDENCE;SAXIFRAGA-OPPOSITIFOLIA;POPULATION-STRUCTURE;SOUTHERN SPAIN;ALPINE;PLANTS;ICE AGES;CLIMATIC CHANGES;S-SVALBARDENSIS;Plant Sciences ER"	"Fuertes Aguilar, J., Gutierrez Larena, B. & Nieto Feliner, G. 2011. Genetic and morphological diversity in Armeria (Plumbaginaceae) is shaped by glacial cycles in Mediterranean refugia. Anales Jard. Bot. Madrid 68(2): 175-197. Little is known of the direct effects of Quaternary glaciation-deglaciation cycles in plants within southern European refugia. This study, centered in the Sierra Nevada (S Spain), used RAPD and morphometric data from 36 populations of Armeria (Plumbaginaceae) from five taxa belonging to three species that are endemic to that region: A. filicaulis subsp. nevadensis, A. filicaulis subsp. trevenqueana, A. filicaulis subsp. alfacarensis, A. splendens, and A. villosa subsp. bernisii. The results based on genetic analyses at the population level (AMOVA, genetic diversity, genetic distance) and genetic and morphological analyses at individual level (haplotype phenetic distance, PCO, morphometrics) indicate that: (1) genetic diversity decreases with altitude, probably as a result of the postglacial recolonization processes, except in some secondary contact zones between taxa; (2) gene flow among interspecific populations, most likely facilitated by contraction of vegetation belts, led to the formation of hybrid taxa; (3) genetic distances among populations provide a useful basis for studying scenarios with frequent interspecific gene-flow since it allows distinguishing eventual cases of introgression from hybridogenous taxa."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0211-1322	 	"[Fuertes Aguilar, Javier; Gutierrez Larena, Belen; Nieto Feliner, Gonzalo] CSIC, E-28014 Madrid, Spain.; Aguilar, JF (reprint author), CSIC, Plaza Murillo 2, E-28014 Madrid, Spain.; jfuertes@rjb.csic.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3989/ajbm.2260	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Galiano,L.;Martinez-Vilalta,J.;Lloret,F."	Drought-Induced Multifactor Decline of Scots Pine in the Pyrenees and Potential Vegetation Change by the Expansion of Co-occurring Oak Species	Ecosystems	Ecosystems	2010	NOV	13	7	978	991	"drought;scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.);canopy defoliation;mortality;recruitment;summer water availability;stand structure;soil properties;mistletoe;TROPICAL RAIN-FORESTS;TREE MORTALITY-RATES;CLIMATE-CHANGE;WATER;RELATIONS;SOIL-MOISTURE;TEMPERATE FOREST;DWARF MISTLETOE;SIERRA-NEVADA;SEED MASS;NE SPAIN;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Episodes of drought-induced tree dieback have been recently observed in many forest areas of the world, particularly at the dry edge of species distributions. Under climate change, those effects could signal potential vegetation shifts occurring over large geographical areas, with major impacts on ecosystem form and function. In this article, we studied the effect of a single drought episode, occurred which in summer 2005, on a Scots pine population in central Pyrenees (NE Spain). Our main objective was to study the environmental correlates of forest decline and vegetation change at the plot level. General and generalized linear models were used to study the relationship between canopy defoliation, mortality and recruitment, and plot characteristics. A drought-driven multifactor dieback was observed in the study forest. Defoliation and mortality were associated with the local level of drought stress estimated at each plot. In addition, stand structure, soil properties, and mistletoe infection were also associated with the observed pattern of defoliation, presumably acting as long-term predisposing factors. Recruitment of Scots pine was low in all plots. In contrast, we observed abundant recruitment of other tree species, mostly Quercus ilex and Q. humilis, particularly in plots where Scots pine showed high defoliation and mortality. These results suggest that an altitudinal upwards migration of Quercus species, mediated by the dieback of the currently dominant species, may take place in the studied slopes. Many rear-edge populations of Scots pine sheltered in the mountain environments of the Iberian Peninsula could be at risk under future climate scenarios.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1432-9840	 	"[Galiano, L.; Martinez-Vilalta, J.; Lloret, F.] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, CREAF Unidad Ecol, E-08193 Barcelona, Spain.; Galiano, L (reprint author), Univ Autonoma Barcelona, CREAF Unidad Ecol, E-08193 Barcelona, Spain.; l.galiano@creaf.uab.es; Jordi.Martinez.Vilalta@uab.es; Francisco.Lloret@uab.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10021-010-9368-8	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Galindo-Zaldivar,J.;Gil,A. J.;Sanz de Galdeano,C.;Lacy,M. C.;Garcia-Armenteros,J. A.;Ruano,P.;Ruiz,A. M.;Martinez-Martos,M.;Alfaro,P."	Active shallow extension in central and eastern Betic Cordillera from CGPS data	Tectonophysics	Tectonophysics	2015	Nov-16	663	 	290	301	"Continuous GPS;Active deformation;Extensional tectonics;Faults and folds;SE Iberian Peninsula;GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM;CURRENT PLATE MOTIONS;SE SPAIN;SOUTHERN;SPAIN;ALBORAN SEA;CRUSTAL DEFORMATION;GRANADA BASIN;GPS NETWORK;TECTONIC IMPLICATIONS;SOUTHEASTERN SPAIN;Geochemistry & Geophysics ER"	"The Betic Cordillera is an Alpine belt formed in the western Mediterranean by the westward displacement of the Alboran Domain in between the Eurasian and African convergent plates. New CGPS data from the central and eastern Betic Cordillera and its foreland-obtained mainly from the Topo-Iberia project allowed us to precisely determine the rate of tectonic deformation. Most of the displacements of the central and eastern Betics are westward, with a variable southwestward component, in relation to the Eurasian stable plate. While in the Iberian foreland the displacements are extremely low, some deformation related to low compressional deformation occurs in the easternmost foreland basin and eastern Betic Cordillera. The displacement increases substantially southwards and westwards in relation to present-day extensional deformation. Major active discontinuities correspond to the NW-SE normal fault zones, which dip westwards; they are located in Almeria-Tabernas; Balanegra, and western Sierra de Gador; whereas the Padul fault zone located west of Sierra Nevada extends northwards to the Granada Basin. NW-SE extensional faults are also observed to the north, in the Baza Basin. Moreover, the activity of dextral faults along the Sorbas-Tabernas-Alpujarras-Guajares band, generally considered as a transfer fault zone, is evidenced by the displacement data. These results come to demonstrate the low activity or inactivity of the large northern E-W oriented folds of the central and eastern Internal Zone, such as the Sierra de Los Filabres antiform. They also point to the possible residual activity of the northern part of the NE-SW Sierra Nevada antiform, where the maximum relief of the Cordillera is found. Altogether, our data support a heterogeneous present-day westward extension that affects the upper crust of the Betic Cordillera and increases towards the thinned continental crust of the Alboran Sea and towards the west, which is compatible with roll-back subduction along the Gibraltar Arc. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	"PT: J; SI: SI"	 		 	 	 	 				 	0040-1951	 	"[Galindo-Zaldivar, J.; Ruano, P.] Univ Granada, Dept Geodinam, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Galindo-Zaldivar, J.; Sanz de Galdeano, C.; Ruano, P.; Martinez-Martos, M.] Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra CSIC UGR, Granada 18071, Spain. [Gil, A. J.; Lacy, M. C.; Garcia-Armenteros, J. A.; Ruiz, A. M.] Univ Jaen, Dept Ingn Cartog Geodesia & Fotogrametria, Jaen 23071, Spain. [Gil, A. J.; Lacy, M. C.; Garcia-Armenteros, J. A.; Ruiz, A. M.] Univ Jaen, Ctr Estudios Avanzados Ciencias Tierra CEACTierra, Jaen 23071, Spain. [Alfaro, P.] Univ Alicante, Dept Ciencias Tierra, E-03080 Alicante, Spain.; Galindo-Zaldivar, J (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Geodinam, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jgalindo@ugr.es; ajgil@ujaen.es; csanz@ugr.es; mlacy@ujaen.es; jgarmen@ujaen.es; pruano@ugr.es; amruiz@ujaen.es; manuelmm@ugr.es; pedro.alfaro@ua.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.tecto.2015.08.035	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Garcia-Alix,A.;Delgado Huertas,A.;Martin Suarez,E."	Unravelling the Late Pleistocene habitat of the southernmost woolly mammoths in Europe	Quaternary Science Reviews	 	2012	Jan-16	32	 	75	85	"Stable isotopes;Woolly mammoth;Latest Pleistocene;'El Padul' peat-bog;Granada Basin;CARBON-ISOTOPE FRACTIONATION;ELEPHANT SKELETAL PHOSPHATE;OXYGEN-ISOTOPE;STABLE-ISOTOPE;BONE-COLLAGEN;PALEOCLIMATOLOGICAL;CONSIDERATIONS;MIGRATION PATTERNS;MAMMALIAN BONE;TOOTH ENAMEL;DIET;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	The southernmost record of woolly mammoths (Mammuthus primigenius) in Europe has been found in Late Pleistocene sediments from 'El Padul' peat-bog, in the Granada Basin (southern Spain). In this paper we discuss a plausible habitat based on stable isotopic analyses of these specimens, dated similar to 40-30 cal ky BP, probably corresponding with the beginning of Heinrich Stadial 4 (HS4) and the end of Heinrich Stadial 3 (HS3). Woolly mammoth remains preserve an accurate isotopic register of past climatic conditions because they needed to ingest large amount of resources daily (water and fresh food), whose isotopic signature, influenced by the environmental conditions, was recorded in their tissues. The delta O-18(w), values of the past meteoric waters (-5.47 parts per thousand to -6.7 parts per thousand vs V-SMOW), calculated from the isotopic composition of teeth enamel, suggest moderate temperatures in comparison with those of similar age recovered in central and northern Europe. Due to its geographic position in southern Europe, our samples recorded the highest delta O-18 of past meteoric waters deduced from mammoth remains in Europe. The difference between these values and those of delta O-18(w) current mean annual precipitation are minimal, contrasting with those of higher latitudes during the end of the last glaciation (similar to 50 to similar to 20 cal ky BP). The isotopic values of nitrogen (10.1 parts per thousand, to 13.2 parts per thousand vs AIR) and carbon (-20.7 to -21.8 parts per thousand vs V-PDB) of collagen show a dry habitat, which occasionally could have been extreme. Taken as a whole, the isotopic results suggest that the studied specimens lived in a very dry steppic area, with moderately cold conditions, contrasting with the wet environment of 'El Padul' peat-bog, and its colder temperatures, due to the influence of glacial conditions of the Sierra Nevada, the highest peninsular mountain range. The described habitat may be sited in a more westerly position than the 'El Padul' peat-bog, and it was warmer and drier than those of contemporaneous European woolly mammoths. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0277-3791	 	"[Garcia-Alix, A.; Delgado Huertas, A.] Univ Granada, Consejo Super Invest Cient, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra IACT CSIC UGR, Granada 18100, Spain. [Martin Suarez, E.] Univ Granada, Dept Estratig & Paleontol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Garcia-Alix, A (reprint author), Univ Granada, Consejo Super Invest Cient, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra IACT CSIC UGR, Ave Palmeras 4, Granada 18100, Spain.; agalix@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.quascirev.2011.11.007	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Garcia-Alix,A.;Jimenez-Espejo,F. J.;Lozano,J. A.;Jimenez-Moreno,G.;Martinez-Ruiz,F.;Garcia Sanjuan,L.;Aranda Jimenez,G.;Garcia Alfonso,E.;Ruiz-Puertas,G.;Anderson,R. Scott"	Anthropogenic impact and lead pollution throughout the Holocene in Southern Iberia	Science of the Total Environment	Sci.Total Environ.	2013	Apr-01	449	 	451	460	"Late Prehistory;Lead pollution;Anthropogenic environmental impact;Metallurgy;Southern Iberia;HIGH-MOUNTAIN LAKES;LAST GLACIAL MAXIMUM;ENVIRONMENTAL-CHANGE;SIERRA-NEVADA;GREENLAND ICE;TRACE-METALS;STABLE-ISOTOPE;MEDIEVAL;TIMES;MONTANE REGION;SPAIN;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Present day lead pollution is an environmental hazard of global proportions. A correct determination of natural lead levels is very important in order to evaluate anthropogenic lead contributions. In this paper, the anthropogenic signature of early metallurgy in Southern Iberia during the Holocene, more specifically during the Late Prehistory, was assessed by mean of a multiproxy approach: comparison of atmospheric lead pollution, fire regimes, deforestation, mass sediment transport, and archeological data. Although the onset of metallurgy in Southern Iberia is a matter of controversy, here we show the oldest lead pollution record from Western Europe in a continuous paleoenvironmental sequence, which suggests clear lead pollution caused by metallurgical activities since similar to 3900 cal BP (Early Bronze Age). This lead pollution was especially important during Late Bronze and Early Iron ages. At the same time, since similar to 4000 cal BP, an increase in fire activity is observed in this area, which is also coupled with deforestation and increased erosion rates. This study also shows that the lead pollution record locally reached near present-day values many times in the past, suggesting intensive use and manipulation of lead during those periods in this area. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0048-9697	 	"[Garcia-Alix, A.; Jimenez-Espejo, F. J.; Lozano, J. A.; Martinez-Ruiz, F.] Univ Granada, CSIC, IACT, UGR, Granada 18100, Spain. [Jimenez-Moreno, G.] Univ Granada, Dept Estratig & Paleontol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Garcia Sanjuan, L.] Univ Seville, Dept Prehist & Arqueol, Seville, Spain. [Aranda Jimenez, G.] Univ Granada, Dept Prehist & Arqueol, Granada, Spain. [Garcia Alfonso, E.] Delegac Prov Cultura Junta Andalucia, Malaga, Spain. [Ruiz-Puertas, G.] Estudios Geol & Medioambientales SL Las Gabias, Granada, Spain. [Anderson, R. Scott] No Arizona Univ, Sch Earth Sci & Environm Sustainabil, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA.; Garcia-Alix, A (reprint author), Univ Granada, CSIC, IACT, UGR, Ave Palmeras 4, Granada 18100, Spain.; agalix@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2013.01.081	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Garcia-Alix,Antonio;Jimenez-Moreno,Gonzalo;Scott Anderson,R.;Jimenez Espejo,Francisco J.;Delgado Huertas,Antonio"	Holocene environmental change in southern Spain deduced from the isotopic record of a high-elevation wetland in Sierra Nevada	Journal of Paleolimnology	J.Paleolimnol.	2012	OCT	48	3	471	484	"Holocene;Wetlands;Southern Spain;Isotopic geochemistry;Organic matter;SEDIMENTARY ORGANIC-MATTER;LAKE-LEVEL FLUCTUATIONS;CLIMATE-CHANGE;MEDITERRANEAN VEGETATION;LAST DEGLACIATION;POLLEN RECORDS;MONTANE;REGION;PEAT BOG;VARIABILITY;DELTA-N-15;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Geology;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	"Small lakes and wetlands from high elevation within the Sierra Nevada Range (southern Spain) preserve a complete post-glacial Holocene record. Isotopic, TOC and C/N analyses, carried out on a sediment core, show various stages in the evolution of the Borreguiles de la Virgen, which today constitute a small bog at about 2,950 m above sea level. Glacial erosion generated a cirque depression, which became a small lake during the first phase of infilling (from 8,200 to 5,100 cal yr BP), as suggested by sedimentary evidence, including an atomic C/N ratio generally below 20, low TOC values and the highest delta C-13 and delta N-15 values of the record. These results imply significant algal productivity, which is confirmed by the microscopic algal remains. Drier conditions became established progressively in this area from 5,100 to 3,700 cal yr BP. Subsequently, the lake evolved into a bog as shown by geochemical evidence (C/N ratios above 20, high TOC content and low delta C-13 values). Unstable conditions prevailed from 3,600 to 700 cal yr BP; an extremely low sedimentation rate and scarcity of data from this period do not allow us to make a coherent interpretation. Fluctuating conditions were recorded during the last 700 cal yr BP, with wetter conditions prevailing during the first part of the interval (with C/N rate below 20) up to 350 years ago. In general, a gradual trend toward more arid conditions occurred since 6,900 cal yr BP, with a further increase in aridity since 5,100 cal yr BP. This evidence is consistent with other contemporaneous peri-Mediterranean records."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0921-2728	 	"[Garcia-Alix, Antonio; Jimenez Espejo, Francisco J.; Delgado Huertas, Antonio] CSIC UGR, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra, Granada, Spain. [Jimenez-Moreno, Gonzalo] Univ Granada, Dept Estratig & Paleontol, Granada, Spain. [Scott Anderson, R.] No Arizona Univ, Sch Earth Sci & Environm Sustainabil, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA.; Garcia-Alix, A (reprint author), CSIC UGR, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra, Granada, Spain.; agalix@ugr.es; gonzaloj@ugr.es; Scott.Anderson@nau.edu; fjjspejo@ugr.es; antonio.delgado@csic.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10933-012-9625-2	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Garcia-Alix,Antonio;Minwer-Barakat,Raef;Martin Suarez,Elvira;Freudenthal,Matthijs;Delgado Huertas,Antonio"	Cinnabar mineralization in fossil small mammal remains as a consequence of diagenetic processes	Lethaia	Lethaia	2013	JAN	46	1	1	6	"Cinnabar;diagenetic alteration;Granada Basin;Late Miocene;small mammals;BASIN SOUTHERN SPAIN;EVOLUTION;FOSSILIZATION;SEDIMENTS;DEPOSITS;MERCURY;SULFUR;Paleontology ER"	The peculiar red colour of fossil small mammal remains from a late Miocene section in southern Spain suggests an unusual diagenetic alteration. These remains have been studied by means of environmental scanning electron microscope equipped with different detectors, energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy and an inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometer. The red colour is caused by the presence of cinnabar (HgS) in the pores of the fossil bones and teeth, filling the dentinal and bone tubules and other cavities that at life were filled by organic matter. A nearby cinnabar outcrop in the metamorphic materials of Sierra Nevada is interpreted as the source of mercury. This element was mobilized by meteoric diagenesis and incorporated as cinnabar in a palustrine environment, occupying pores and cavities of mammal remains shortly after the degradation of the organic matter (post-mortem enrichment), during the early diagenesis.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0024-1164	 	"[Garcia-Alix, Antonio; Delgado Huertas, Antonio] Univ Granada, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra IACT CSIC UGR, Consejo Super Invest Cient, Granada 18100, Spain. [Minwer-Barakat, Raef] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Inst Catala Paleontol Miquel Crusafont, E-08193 Barcelona, Spain. [Martin Suarez, Elvira; Freudenthal, Matthijs] Univ Granada, Dept Estratig & Paleontol, Granada 18002, Spain. [Freudenthal, Matthijs] Netherlands Ctr Biodivers Nat, Leiden, Netherlands.; Garcia-Alix, A (reprint author), Univ Granada, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra IACT CSIC UGR, Consejo Super Invest Cient, Ave Palmeras 4, Granada 18100, Spain.; agalix@ugr.es; raef.minwer@icp.cat; elvirams@ugr.es; mfreuden@ugr.es; antonio.delgado@csic.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/let.12003	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Garcia-Jurado,Fatima;de Vicente,Inmaculada;Galotti,Andrea;Reul,Andreas;Jimenez-Gomez,Francisco;Guerrero,Francisco"	Effect of Drought Conditions on Plankton Community and on Nutrient Availability in an Oligotrophic High Mountain Lake	Arctic Antarctic and Alpine Research	 	2012	FEB	44	1	50	61	"NORTH-ATLANTIC OSCILLATION;WATER-LEVEL FLUCTUATIONS;SIERRA-NEVADA;SOLAR-RADIATION;ALPINE LAKE;PHYTOPLANKTON COMMUNITY;BIOMASS;DISTRIBUTION;HEXARTHRA-BULGARICA;PLANT-COMMUNITIES;ALGAL CONTROL;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Physical Geography ER"	Natural water level fluctuations (WLFs) are an inherent characteristic of Mediterranean inland waters, which are projected to be amplified by global climate change. La Caldera (Sierra Nevada National Park, Spain) is an oligotrophic high mountain lake (3050 m a.s.l.) that has experienced large fluctuations in water volume (13-100%) during the past 20 years due to irregular annual precipitation patterns (371-1816 mm). Because of the lake's cold and dilute abiotic environment, it is likely susceptible to projected increases in global temperature and represents an ideal sentinel of global change. We analyze the effect of WLFs on water quality and on plankton community in La Caldera to better understand the potential effects of recurrent droughts (3 droughts in a 20-year period) on lake ecology. We have found significantly positive effects of WLFs on total phosphorus (TP) concentrations. There was extreme variability in TP concentrations during three recurrent droughts (1995, 1999, and 2005) reflecting sediment resuspension. However, the data also suggest that this was not the only source of phosphorus. Extremely high P-enriched atmospheric dust inputs could have maintained the abnormally high TP in-lake concentrations measured during 2005. The data indicate that recurrent droughts have reduced lake resistance to TP changes but have increased lake resistance to total nitrogen (TN) changes, which supports the idea that a P-enriched atmospheric dust inputs during 2005. An increase in dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN):TP mass ratio after 2005 was observed, revealing a higher ecosystem homeostasis of this ratio.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1523-0430	 	"[Garcia-Jurado, Fatima; Galotti, Andrea; Jimenez-Gomez, Francisco; Guerrero, Francisco] Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Jaen 23071, Spain. [de Vicente, Inmaculada] Dept Ecol, Granada 18071, Spain. [Reul, Andreas] Dept Ecol & Geol, Malaga 29071, Spain.; Garcia-Jurado, F (reprint author), Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Campus Las Lagunillas S-N, Jaen 23071, Spain.; fagarcia@ujaen.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1657/1938-4246-44.1.50	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Garcia-Jurado,Fatima;Jimenez-Gomez,Francisco;Guerrero,Francisco"	Effects of a dry period on the limnological characteristics of a Mediterranean high mountain lake	Limnetica	 	2011	JUN	30	1	5	16	"High mountain lakes;drought;plankton community;nutrients;HEXARTHRA-BULGARICA;REMOTE ALPINE;ZOOPLANKTON;VARIABILITY;PHOSPHORUS;NITROGEN;SPAIN;STOICHIOMETRY;PRODUCTIVITY;TEMPERATURE;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	"This investigation assesses the effects of a drought period on the physical and chemical properties and on the plankton community of a Mediterranean high mountain lake (Rio Seco, Sierra Nevada, Spain). The study was performed over two consecutive years, 2005 and 2006. Both years were characterised by strong differences associated with rainfall patterns. The first year was extremely dry and had rainfall values far below the mean annual average of 813 mm that has been observed over the previous twenty years. The results of the study confirm that the dissolved inorganic nitrogen:soluble reactive phosphorus ratio (DIN:SRP) showed notable differences throughout both study years, with a greater nitrogen limitation during 2005. The ratio of total biovolume of autotrophic to heterotrophic organisms (A:H) also presented interannual differences. The A:H ratio was generally below 1 during 2005, whereas it was above this value in 2006. Therefore, the main plankton component was mesozooplankton in 2005 and phytoplankton in 2006. Ciliates and bacteria showed a mean biovolume significantly higher in 2005, whereas the biovolume of heterotrophic nanoflagellates was similar during both years. These results indicate a prevalent ""top-down"" control by zooplankton during the dry year and, on the contrary, a predominant ""bottom-up"" control during the wetter year as a consequence of the nutrient limitation of primary production."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0213-8409	 	"[Garcia-Jurado, Fatima; Jimenez-Gomez, Francisco; Guerrero, Francisco] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Jaen 23071, Spain.; Guerrero, F (reprint author), Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Campus Lagunillas S-N, Jaen 23071, Spain.; fguerre@ujaen.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Garcia-Lopez,S.;Benavente,J.;Cruz-Sanjulian,J. J.;Olias,M."	Conjunctive use of water resources as an alternative to a leaky reservoir in a mountainous, semiarid area (Adra River basin, SE Spain)	Hydrogeology Journal	Hydrogeol.J.	2009	NOV	17	7	1779	1790	"Water resources management;Carbonate rocks;Reservoir leakage;Groundwater/surface-water relations;Spain;DAM;GROUNDWATER;Geology;Water Resources ER"	"Regulatory actions taken in the Adra River basin (746 km(2)), located south of the Sierra Nevada Mountains (SE Spain), are analyzed. The Beninar Reservoir (60 hm(3)), which entered into service in 1983, has suffered from severe leakage from the outset, preventing it from performing the water management functions originally foreseen for it; however, it has also made it possible to determine the response of the underlying carbonate aquifer into which the reservoir water is draining. This response has been studied based on historical data as well as the occurrence of an extraordinary recharge produced by a period of exceptionally heavy rainfall. A conceptual model of the system's functioning has been established by analyzing leakage rates, piezometric variations, the discharge through the only spring in the area (the Fuentes de Marbella spring) and the physical-chemical characteristics of the aquifer water. Geological and structural aspects of the carbonate formation were also included. An alternative solution for water regulation in the river basin is proposed: the construction of a smaller dam downstream from the spring. This dam would induce recharge through the permeable base of the reservoir, raise the piezometric level and thus increase its storage capacity, as well as control and regulate the water discharged from the spring."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1431-2174	 	"[Garcia-Lopez, S.] Univ Cadiz, Fac Ciencias Mar & Ambientales, Dept Ciencias Tierra, Cadiz 11510, Spain. [Benavente, J.; Cruz-Sanjulian, J. J.] Univ Granada, Inst Agua, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Olias, M.] Univ Huelva, Fac Ciencias Expt, Dept Geodinam & Paleontol, Huelva 21071, Spain.; Garcia-Lopez, S (reprint author), Univ Cadiz, Fac Ciencias Mar & Ambientales, Dept Ciencias Tierra, Campus Rio San Pedro S-N, Cadiz 11510, Spain.; santiago.garcia@uca.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10040-009-0466-7	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Garcia-Nieto,Ana P.;Garcia-Llorente,Marina;Iniesta-Arandia,Irene;Martin-Lopez,Berta"	Mapping forest ecosystem services: From providing units to beneficiaries	Ecosystem Services	 	2013	JUN	4	 	126	138	"Ecosystem service bundle;Hotspot;Protected area;Scale mismatch;Stakeholder;Trade-off;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Some of the main research questions in the assessment ecosystem services include how to integrate ecological and social information into the analysis and how to make it spatially explicit. We mapped six ecosystem services delivered by forests in the Sierra Nevada Mountains (south-east Spain) from the supply- to the demand-sides, taking into account the influence of protected areas on the capacity of supply services. Semi-structured interviews and geographical information system sources were used to map the supply-side, whereas 205 face-to-face questionnaires were distributed to assess and map the demand-side. Our results show the existence of consistent ecosystem service bundles in terms of both the supply- and demand-sides, particularly between erosion control-recreational hunting and between mushroom harvesting-nature tourism. We found a spatial scale mismatch for the erosion control, with its supply at the local scale and its demand at the regional-national scales, with implications at the institutional scale at which it should be managed. Consequently, mapping both the supply- and demand-sides is essential for environmental decision making because it can indicate where management interventions should be focused, either by defining high-priority areas for protection or defining the institutional scale at which these services should be managed. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	"PT: J; SI: SI"	 		 	 	 	 				 	2212-0416	 	"[Garcia-Nieto, Ana P.; Garcia-Llorente, Marina; Iniesta-Arandia, Irene; Martin-Lopez, Berta] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Dept Ecol, Social Ecol Syst Lab, E-28049 Madrid, Spain. [Garcia-Llorente, Marina] Univ Carlos III Madrid, Polit Sci & Sociol Dept, Sociol Climate Change & Sustainable Dev Res Grp, Madrid 28903, Spain.; Martin-Lopez, B (reprint author), Univ Autonoma Madrid, Dept Ecol, Social Ecol Syst Lab, Edificio Biol, E-28049 Madrid, Spain.; berta.martin@uam.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.ecoser.2013.03.003	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Garcia-Ruiz,Jose M.;Palacios,David;de Andres,Nuria;Valero-Garces,Blas L.;Lopez-Moreno,Juan I.;Sanjuan,Yasmina"	Holocene and 'Little Ice Age' glacial activity in the Marbore Cirque, Monte Perdido Massif, Central Spanish Pyrenees	Holocene	Holocene	2014	NOV	24	11	1439	1452	"Central Pyrenees;cosmogenic exposure ages;Holocene glaciers;""Little Ice Age';Marbore Cirque;rock avalanche;CLIMATE VARIABILITY;LATEST PLEISTOCENE;NORTH-ATLANTIC;MEDITERRANEAN;VEGETATION;IBERIAN PENINSULA;SOUTHERN PYRENEES;HIGH-RESOLUTION;SIERRA-NEVADA;NE SPAIN;FLUCTUATIONS;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	"The Marbore Cirque, which is located in the southern Central Pyrenees on the north face of the Monte Perdido Peak (42 degrees 400N; 0.5 degrees 0W; 3355m), contains a wide variety of Holocene glacial and periglacial deposits, and those from the Little Ice Age' (LIA') are particularly well developed. Based on geomorphological mapping, cosmogenic exposure dating and previous studies of lacustrine sediment cores, the different deposits were dated and a sequence of geomorphological and paleoenvironmental events was established as follows: (1) The Marbore Cirque was at least partially deglaciated before 12.7kyrBP. (2) Some ice masses are likely to have persisted in the Early Holocene, although their moraines were destroyed by the advance of glaciers during the Mid Holocene and LIA'. (3) A glacial expansion occurred during the Mid Holocene (5.1 +/- 0.1kyr), represented by a large push moraine that enclosed a unique ice mass at the foot of the Monte Perdido Massif. (4) A melting phase occurred at approximately 3.4 +/- 0.2 and 2.5 +/- 0.1kyr (Bronze/Iron Ages) after one of the most important glacial advances of the Neoglacial period. (5) Another glacial expansion occurred during the Dark Age Cold Period (1.4-1.2kyr), followed by a melting period during the Medieval Climate Anomaly. (6) The LIA' represented a clear stage of glacial expansion within the Marbore Cirque. Two different pulses of glaciation were detected, separated by a short retraction. The first pulse occurred most likely during the late 17th century or early 18th century (Maunder Minimum), whereas the second occurred between 1790 and ad1830 (Dalton Minimum). A strong deglaciation process has affected the Marbore Cirque glaciers since the middle of the 19th century. (7) A large rock avalanche occurred during the Mid Holocene, leaving a chaotic deposit that was previously considered to be a Late Glacial moraine."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0959-6836	 	"[Garcia-Ruiz, Jose M.; Valero-Garces, Blas L.; Lopez-Moreno, Juan I.; Sanjuan, Yasmina] CSIC, Inst Pirenaico Ecol, E-50080 Zaragoza, Spain. [Palacios, David; de Andres, Nuria] Univ Complutense Madrid, E-28040 Madrid, Spain.; Garcia-Ruiz, JM (reprint author), CSIC, Inst Pirenaico Ecol, Campus Aula Dei,POB 13-034, E-50080 Zaragoza, Spain.; humberto@ipe.csic.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1177/0959683614544053	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gilgado,Jose D.;Enghoff,Henrik;Tinaut,Alberto;Mauries,Jean-Paul;Ortuno,Vicente M."	Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain): a high-altitude biogeographical crossroads for millipedes (Diplopoda), with first data on its MSS fauna and description of a new species of the genus Ceratosphys Ribaut, 1920 (Chordeumatida: Opisthocheiridae)	Zootaxa	 	2015	Nov-19	4044	3	391	410	"hypogean millipedes;MSS;Orophilous fauna;superficial subterranean habitats;MESOVOID SHALLOW SUBSTRATUM;SUBTERRANEAN ENVIRONMENT;POLYDESMIDA;POLYDESMIDAE;CAVERNICOLOUS MILLIPEDES;IBERIAN PENINSULA;ARTHROPOD;FAUNA;GROUND BEETLES;CENTRAL-EUROPE;COLEOPTERA;ANDALUSIA;Zoology ER"	Millipedes (Diplopoda), with a few notable exceptions, are poor dispersers, showing a very high degree of endemicity, not the least in mountains. The first samplings of the Mesovoid Shallow Substratum (MSS) of the higher altitudes of the Sierra Nevada Mountains (Baetic System, Southern Spain) have led to the discovery of a high number of millipedes, each of the species present showing a different degree of establishment in this subterranean environment. An update of the knowledge on the millipedes of this region, the first data of the millipede communities in the MSS and the description of Ceratosphys cryodeserti Gilgado, Mauries & Enghoff n. sp. are here provided, as well as the first data on the humidity and temperature fluctuations in the MSS of this high mountain. The new species is similar to other Baetico-Riffan species, while the only previously known congener from the region, C. soutadei Mauries, 1969, has more similarities to certain Pyrenean species. Biogeographical relationships of all the captured species are also discussed.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1175-5326	 	"[Gilgado, Jose D.; Ortuno, Vicente M.] Univ Alcala UAH, Fac Biol Chem & Environm Sci, Dept Life Sci, Res Team Soil Biol & Subterranean Ecosyst, E-28805 Madrid, Spain. [Enghoff, Henrik] Univ Copenhagen, Nat Hist Museum Denmark Zool Museum, DK-2100 Copenhagen O, Denmark. [Tinaut, Alberto] Univ Granada, Fac Sci, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Mauries, Jean-Paul] Museum Natl Hist Nat, Dept Syst & Evolut, F-75231 Paris 05, France.; Gilgado, JD (reprint author), Univ Alcala UAH, Fac Biol Chem & Environm Sci, Dept Life Sci, Res Team Soil Biol & Subterranean Ecosyst, AP 20 Campus Univ, E-28805 Madrid, Spain.; josedomingo.gilgado@uah.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gilgado,Jose D.;Enghoff,Henrik;Tinaut,Alberto;Ortuno,Vicente M."	Hidden biodiversity in the Iberian Mesovoid Shallow Substratum (MSS): New and poorly known species of the millipede genus Archipolydesmus Attems, 1898 (Diplopoda, Polydesmidae)	Zoologischer Anzeiger	Zool.Anz.	2015	 	258	 	13	38	"Alicante mountains;Guadarrama mountains;Hypogean millipedes;Sierra Nevada;Subterranean fauna;Superficial subterranean habitats;MITOCHONDRIAL-DNA;SUBTERRANEAN ENVIRONMENT;CAVERNICOLOUS MILLIPEDES;GROUND BEETLES;CENTRAL-EUROPE;EVOLUTION;COLEOPTERA;SPAIN;CAVE;ORIGIN;Zoology ER"	"Systematic sampling of the Mesovoid Shallow Substratum (MSS) at several sites in three regions of the Iberian Peninsula has revealed two new and one very poorly known species of the genus Archipolydesmus Attems, 1898. These are the first records of Archipolydesmus in the MSS, although the genus had previously been recorded from several caves in southern Spain. Archipolydesmus foliatus sp. nov. shows inter-population variability between different mountain massifs of the province of Alicante, as well as intra-population variability at some sites; A. altibaeticus sp. nov. exclusively inhabits the MSS of the highest screes of Sierra Nevada (3000 masl) in the province of Granada, and it closely resembles Archipolydesmus maroccanus Attems, 1898; from North Africa; Archipolydesmus bedeli (Brolemann, 1902) had only been re-collected once since its description, and the male, hitherto unknown, is described here. Detailed SEM documentation of the main characters of each species is provided, and a discussion on the implications of these findings in the MSS is provided. Also, a distribution map, an updated key to species of the genus in English, and a brief review of millipedes found in the MSS are provided. (C) 2015 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0044-5231	 	"[Gilgado, Jose D.; Ortuno, Vicente M.] Univ Alcala UAH, Fac Biol Chem & Environm Sci, Dept Life Sciencies, Res Team Soil Biol & Subterranean Ecosyst, E-28805 Madrid, Spain. [Enghoff, Henrik] Univ Copenhagen, Nat Hist Museum Denmark, Zool Museum, DK-2100 Copenhagen O, Denmark. [Tinaut, Alberto] Univ Granada, Fac Sci, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Gilgado, JD (reprint author), Univ Alcala UAH, Fac Biol Chem & Environm Sci, Dept Life Sciencies, Res Team Soil Biol & Subterranean Ecosyst, AP 20 Campus Univ, E-28805 Madrid, Spain.; josedomingo.gilgado@uah.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.jcz.2015.06.001	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez Ortiz,Antonio;Palacios,David;Palade,Bogdan;Vazquez Selem,Lorenzo;Salvador Franch,Ferran;Tanarro Garcia,Luis Miguel;Oliva Franganillo,Marc"	Glacial Evolution of Sierra Nevada (Spain) and the Origin of Rock Glaciares	Boletin De La Asociacion De Geografos Espanoles	 	2013	 	 	61	139	+	"Last Glacial Maximum;deglaciation;rock glacier;cosmogenic dating;Sierra Nevada;late Pleistocene;Holocene;NORTHERN ALPINE FORELAND;MEDITERRANEAN MOUNTAINS;LAST DEGLACIATION;IBERIAN PENINSULA;EASTERN ALPS;COLD STAGE;RECORD;CHRONOLOGY;Geography ER"	This paper studys four glaciated valleys around the Pico del Veleta-Pico Mulhacen (37 degrees 3'N, 3 degrees 21'W, >3,300 m). The analyses of 19 samples cosmogenic isotope Cl-36 shows that the last local glacial maximum advance was within the MIS 2. The general retreat of the glaciers was in 15/14 ka. Just after this, an extensive system of rock glaciers were formed, lasting until 7 ka. The origin of these rock (1)glaciers is related to the deglaciation process and the considerable geomorphologic activity of the walls rather than caused by extreme periglacial climate.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0212-9426	 	"[Gomez Ortiz, Antonio; Salvador Franch, Ferran] Univ Barcelona, Dept Geog Fis & Anal Geog Reg, E-08007 Barcelona, Spain. [Palacios, David; Tanarro Garcia, Luis Miguel] Univ Complutense Madrid, Dept Anal Geog Reg & Geog Fis, E-28040 Madrid, Spain. [Palade, Bogdan] Ctr Satelites Union Europea EUSC, Torrejon De Ardoz, Madrid, Spain. [Vazquez Selem, Lorenzo] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Inst Geog, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico. [Oliva Franganillo, Marc] Univ Lisbon, Dept Geog, Lisbon, Portugal.; Ortiz, AG (reprint author), Univ Barcelona, Dept Geog Fis & Anal Geog Reg, E-08007 Barcelona, Spain.; gomez@ub.edu; davidp@ghis.ucm.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez Ortiz,Antonio;Salvador Franch,Ferran;Schulte,Lothar;Sanjose Blasco,Jose Juan;Atkinson Gordo,Alan;Palacios Estremera,David"	Morphodynamic evolution in recent deglaciated high mountain areas: The case of the Veleta Cirque, Sierra Nevada. Consequence of climate change?	Scripta Nova-Revista Electronica De Geografia Y Ciencias Sociales	 	2008	Aug-01	12	270	 	 	"Degradation;Spain;rock glacier;dead ice;permafrost;Sierra Nevada subsidence;Geography ER"	Dead ice and alpine permafrost in the Veleta cirque are remnants of the environmental conditions during the Little Ice Age (15th to 19th century). Topographic control and thermal monitoring of the Veleta cirque rock glacier indicate the degradation of dead ice and discontinuous permafrost since 2001. This degradation triggers the subsidence of the overlying detritus cover. Snow cover, thawing water and propagation of external radiation are the main factors of the subsidence of the detritus and may be related to climate variability, especially to the global warming after the Little Ice Age.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1138-9788	 	"[Gomez Ortiz, Antonio; Salvador Franch, Ferran; Schulte, Lothar] Univ Barcelona, E-08007 Barcelona, Spain. [Sanjose Blasco, Jose Juan; Atkinson Gordo, Alan] Univ Extremadura, E-06071 Badajoz, Spain. [Palacios Estremera, David] Univ Complutense Madrid, E-28040 Madrid, Spain.; Ortiz, AG (reprint author), Univ Barcelona, E-08007 Barcelona, Spain."	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez,Jose M.;Abdelaziz,Mohamed;Lorite,Juan;Jesus Munoz-Pajares,A.;Perfectti,Francisco"	Changes in pollinator fauna cause spatial variation in pollen limitation	Journal of Ecology	J.Ecol.	2010	SEP	98	5	1243	1252	"demography;Erysimum mediohispanicum;pollen limitation;pollination generalization;pollinator composition;pollinator diversity;reproductive ecology;spatial variation;PLANT REPRODUCTION;SEED PRODUCTION;SET;CONSEQUENCES;DIVERSITY;SELECTION;QUALITY;ALPINE;SPECIALIZATION;AMARYLLIDACEAE;Plant Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	P>1. Pollen limitation may be a consequence of changes in pollinator abundance, diversity and identity. However, no empirical evidence exists concerning the consequences that the spatial variation in pollinator fauna has on pollen limitation intensity and plant reproduction. In this study, we test the effect that changes in flower-visitor abundance, diversity and identity exert on the occurrence and strength of pollen limitation by experimentally quantifying pollen limitation in eight populations of Erysimum mediohispanicum, a pollination-generalist plant native to the Iberian Peninsula. 2. Pollen limitation was accounted for by using a comprehensive estimator, the net reproductive rate (R(0)). Nevertheless, we also determined which components of plant reproduction, from ovule fertilization to seedling survival, were more intensely pollen-limited. Finally, we explored whether the spatial variation in pollen limitation intensity was related to among-population changes in flower-visitor abundance, diversity and identity. 3. The whole reproductive cycle of E. mediohispanicum was pollen-limited, although pollen limitation occurred more strongly during the ovule fertilization and seed-production phases than during fruit ripening or seedling emergence and establishment. 4. There was a significant among-population difference in pollen limitation intensity. Pollen limitation strength was associated with variations in flower-visitor diversity, and identity. Populations with lower flower-visitor diversity and with many low-efficiency pollinators (i.e. beetles) showed stronger pollen limitation. 5. Synthesis. Our study shows that the intensity of pollen limitation at the population level may depend on several characteristics of the assemblage of flower-visiting insects, such as their abundance, diversity and identity. Our results suggest that any impoverishment of pollinator diversity or any alteration in the specific composition of the pollinator assemblage may exacerbate pollen limitation.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0022-0477	 	"[Gomez, Jose M.] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Abdelaziz, Mohamed; Jesus Munoz-Pajares, A.; Perfectti, Francisco] Univ Granada, Dept Genet, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Lorite, Juan] Univ Granada, Dept Bot, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Gomez, JM (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jmgreyes@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/j.1365-2745.2010.01691.x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez,Jose M.;Bosch,Jordi;Perfectti,Francisco;Fernandez,J. D.;Abdelaziz,Mohamed;Camacho,J. P. M."	Spatial variation in selection on corolla shape in a generalist plant is promoted by the preference patterns of its local pollinators	Proceedings of the Royal Society B-Biological Sciences	 	2008	Oct-07	275	1648	2241	2249	"corolla shape evolution;pollinator preference;spatial variation;geometric morphometrics;nectar;pollen;HORMATHOPHYLLA-SPINOSA CRUCIFERAE;FREQUENCY-DEPENDENT SELECTION;FLORAL;SYMMETRY;ERYSIMUM-MEDIOHISPANICUM;WILD RADISH;FLOWER SIZE;PHENOTYPIC;SELECTION;IPOMOPSIS-AGGREGATA;POLEMONIUM-VISCOSUM;MEDITERRANEAN HERB;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Evolutionary Biology ER"	An adaptive role of corolla shape has been often asserted without an empirical demonstration of how natural selection acts on this trait. In generalist plants, in which flowers are visited by diverse pollinator fauna that commonly vary spatially, detecting pollinator-mediated selection on corolla shape is even more difficult. In this study, we explore the mechanisms promoting selection on corolla shape in the generalist crucifer Erysimum mediohispanicum Polatschek (Brassicaceae). We found that the main pollinators of E. mediohispanicum (large bees, small bees and bee flies) discriminate between different corolla shapes when offered artificial flowers without reward. Importantly, different pollinators prefer different shapes: bees prefer flowers with narrow petals, whereas bee flies prefer flowers with rounded overlapping petals. We also found that flowers with narrow petals (those preferred by bees) produce both more pollen and nectar than those with rounded petals. Finally, different plant populations were visited by different faunas. As a result, we found spatial variation in the selection acting on corolla shape. Selection favoured flowers with narrow petals in the populations where large or small bees are the most abundant pollinator groups. Our study suggests that pollinators, by preferring flowers with high reward, exert strong selection on the E. mediohispanicum corolla shape. The geographical variation in the pollinator-mediated selection on E. mediohispanicum corolla shape suggests that phenotypic evolution and diversification can occur in this complex floral trait even without specialization.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0962-8452	 	"[Gomez, Jose M.; Fernandez, J. D.] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Perfectti, Francisco; Abdelaziz, Mohamed; Camacho, J. P. M.] Univ Granada, Dept Genet, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Bosch, Jordi] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Unidad Ecol CREAF, Bellaterra 08193, Spain.; Gomez, JM (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jmgreyes@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1098/rspb.2008.0512	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez,Jose M.;Gonzalez-Megias,Adela;Lorite,Juan;Abdelaziz,Mohamed;Perfectti,Francisco"	The silent extinction: climate change and the potential hybridization-mediated extinction of endemic high-mountain plants	Biodiversity and Conservation	Biodivers.Conserv.	2015	AUG	24	8	1843	1857	"Altitudinal movements;Global warming;Introgression;Plant conservation policy;Sierra Nevada;CONSERVATION;RISK;CONSEQUENCES;POPULATIONS;SPECIATION;DIVERSITY;IMPACTS;EUROPE;SHIFT;Biodiversity & Conservation;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Most global-warming models predict an altitudinal movement of plants. This upward migration of lowland species will surely result in contact with related species inhabiting high-mountain ecosystems. We propose that an overlooked consequence of this upland movement is the possibility for interspecific hybridization between narrowly endemic alpine plants and widely distributed lowland plants. Genetic swamping due to introgressive hybridization might even lead to the genetic extinction of the endemic species, without any apparent detrimental demographic effect. Unfortunately, this phenomenon has long been ignored in the ecological literature, probably because is widely assumed that the ecological effects of climate change are more detrimental than its genetic effects. We tested our idea by searching for human-induced hybridization in a worldwide hotspot biodiversity, the high-mountains of the Sierra Nevada (south-eastern Spain). About 25 % of the endemic flora is already hybridizing in these mountains, mostly with widespread lowland congeners. Some species are even already threatened due to genetic swamping. It is thereby urgent including in future conservation agendas a protocol for detecting and monitoring positive and negative effects of genetic swamping mediated by climate change in high mountains and other sensitive ecosystems.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0960-3115	 	"[Gomez, Jose M.] CSIC, EEZA, Dept Ecol Func & Evolut, La Canada De San Urbano 04120, Almeria, Spain. [Gomez, Jose M.] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Gonzalez-Megias, Adela] Univ Granada, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Lorite, Juan] Univ Granada, Dept Bot, Granada 18071, Spain. [Abdelaziz, Mohamed] Univ Stirling, Sch Nat Sci, Biol & Environm Sci, Stirling FK9 4LA, Scotland. [Abdelaziz, Mohamed; Perfectti, Francisco] Univ Granada, Dept Genet, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Gomez, JM (reprint author), CSIC, EEZA, Dept Ecol Func & Evolut, Ctra Sacramento S-N, La Canada De San Urbano 04120, Almeria, Spain.; jmgreyes@eeza.csic.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10531-015-0909-5	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez,Jose M.;Hodar,Jose A."	Wild boars (Sus scrofa) affect the recruitment rate and spatial distribution of holm oak (Quercus ilex)	Forest Ecology and Management	For.Ecol.Manage.	2008	Sep-05	256	6	1384	1389	"Quercus ilex;population regeneration;seedling recruitment;herbivory;facilitation;wild boars;seedling establishment limitation;SEED DISPERSAL;NURSE PLANTS;CENTRAL CALIFORNIA;MEDITERRANEAN OAK;TAXUS-BACCATA;TREE;PATTERNS;FOREST;Forestry ER"	The role of herbivores in controlling plant population abundance and distribution is unclear. We experimentally determine the effect of damage by wild boars (Sus scrofa) in recruitment rate and spatial pattern of a Mediterranean tree, the holm oak (Quercus ilex). We monitored oak establishment in the Sierra Nevada of southeastern Spain during 4 years (1999-2002) in four plots, two fenced and two unfenced that were used as controls. In addition, we planted 1-year-old seedlings in all microhabitats, both in fenced and control plots. to experimentally determine the effect of wild boar on their microhabitat-dependent survival. Despite seedling abundance being similar inside and outside the fences, sapling abundance diminished up to 50% in unfenced plots compared to fenced plots. Wild boars also seemed to modify the spatial distribution of seedlings and saplings. Whereas seedlings were most abundant under pines both in fenced and control plots, sapling abundance was highest under pine trees in fenced plots, but similarly abundant under pines or shrubs in control plots. This change in spatial pattern was due to the effect of wild boars killing seedlings when looking for food under pines. The effects of the different mortality factors were not additive. Where ungulates are absent, recruitment is high and occurs under oaks and especially under pines. Where wild boars are present, recruitment diminishes and occurs mostly under shrubs and pines. Wild boars arrest population growth and modify the spatial pattern of recruitment. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0378-1127	 	"[Gomez, Jose M.; Hodar, Jose A.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dpto Ecol, Grp Ecol Terr, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Gomez, JM (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dpto Ecol, Grp Ecol Terr, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jmgreyes@ugr.es; jhodar@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.foreco.2008.06.045	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez,Jose M.;Perfectti,Francisco"	Fitness consequences of centrality in mutualistic individual-based networks	Proceedings of the Royal Society B-Biological Sciences	 	2012	May-07	279	1734	1754	1760	"individual-based networks;centrality;plant fitness;interacting phenotype;individual generalization;pollination;POLLINATION NETWORKS;POPULATION;ARCHITECTURE;DIVERSITY;BEHAVIOR;PLANTS;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Evolutionary Biology ER"	The relationships among the members of a population can be visualized using individual networks, where each individual is a node connected to each other by means of links describing the interactions. The centrality of a given node captures its importance within the network. We hypothesize that in mutualistic networks, the centrality of a node should benefit its fitness. We test this idea studying eight individual-based networks originated from the interaction between Erysimum mediohispanicum and its flower visitors. In these networks, each plant was considered a node and was connected to conspecifics sharing flower visitors. Centrality indicates how well connected is a given E. mediohispanicum individual with the rest of the co-occurring conspecifics because of sharing flower visitors. The centrality was estimated by three network metrics: betweenness, closeness and degree. The complex relationship between centrality, phenotype and fitness was explored by structural equation modelling. We found that the centrality of a plant was related to its fitness, with plants occupying central positions having higher fitness than those occupying peripheral positions. The structural equation models (SEMs) indicated that the centrality effect on fitness was not merely an effect of the abundance of visits and the species richness of visitors. Centrality has an effect even when simultaneously accounting for these predictors. The SEMs also indicated that the centrality effect on fitness was because of the specific phenotype of each plant, with attractive plants occupying central positions in networks, in relation to the distribution of conspecific phenotypes. This finding suggests that centrality, owing to its dependence on social interactions, may be an appropriate surrogate for the interacting phenotype of individuals.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0962-8452	 	"[Gomez, Jose M.; Perfectti, Francisco] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Granada, Spain. [Gomez, Jose M.; Perfectti, Francisco] Univ Granada, Dept Genet, Granada, Spain.; Gomez, JM (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Granada, Spain.; jmgreyes@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1098/rspb.2011.2244	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez,Jose M.;Puerta-Pinero,Carolina;Schupp,Eugene W."	Effectiveness of rodents as local seed dispersers of Holm oaks	Oecologia	Oecologia	2008	MAR	155	3	529	537	"acorn dispersal;Apodemus sylvaticus;disperser effectiveness;Quercus ilex;Sciurus vulgaris;QUERCUS-ILEX;POSTDISPERSAL PREDATION;SUBTROPICAL;FOREST;MEDITERRANEAN OAK;SPATIAL-PATTERNS;CASTANEA-CRENATA;TREE;SEEDLINGS;WOOD MICE;RECRUITMENT;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	In this study we assessed the effectiveness of rodents as dispersers of Quercus ilex in a patchy landscape in southeastern Spain. We experimentally followed the fates of 3,200 marked and weighed acorns from dispersal through the time of seedling emergence over three years. Rodents handled about 99% of acorns, and dispersed 67% and cached 7.4% of the dispersed acorns. Most caches were recovered and consumed, and only 1.3% of the original experimental acorns were found alive in caches the following spring. Dispersal distances were short (mean = 356.2 cm, median = 157 cm) and strongly right-skewed. Heavier acorns were dispersed further and were more likely to be cached and survive than lighter acorns. All caches were in litter or soil, and each contained a single acorn. Rodents moved acorns nonrandomly, mostly to oaks and pines. Most surviving acorns were either in oaks, a poor microhabitat for oak recruitment, or shrubs, a suitable microhabitat for oak recruitment. Our results suggest that rodents, by burying a relatively high proportion of acorns singly in shrubs and pines, act as moderately effective dispersers of Q. ilex. Nonetheless, this dispersal comes at a very heavy cost.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0029-8549	 	"[Gomez, Jose M.; Puerta-Pinero, Carolina] Univ Granada, Dpto Ecol, Granada, Spain. [Schupp, Eugene W.] Utah State Univ, Dept Wildland Resources, Logan, UT 84322 USA. [Schupp, Eugene W.] Utah State Univ, Ctr Ecol, Logan, UT 84322 USA.; Gomez, JM (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dpto Ecol, Granada, Spain.; jmgreyes@ugr.es; carol@ugr.es; schupp@cc.usu.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s00442-007-0928-3	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez-Aparicio,Lorena;Zamora,Regino;Castro,Jorge;Hodar,Jose A."	Facilitation of tree saplings by nurse plants: Microhabitat amelioration or protection against herbivores?	Journal of Vegetation Science	 	2008	APR	19	2	161	172	"abiotic stress;facilitation mechanism;herbivory pressure;Mediterranean mountain;nurse shrub;sapling survival;species-specific effect;SEEDLING ESTABLISHMENT;POSITIVE INTERACTIONS;MEDITERRANEAN;ENVIRONMENTS;PINUS-SYLVESTRIS;TAXUS-BACCATA;SHRUBS;REGENERATION;COMMUNITIES;RECRUITMENT;ASSOCIATION;Plant Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Forestry ER"	Question: Positive interactions are predicted to be common in communities developing under high physical stress or high herbivory pressure due to neighbour amelioration of limiting physical and consumer stresses, respectively. However, when both stress sources meet in the same community, the relative importance of the two facilitation mechanisms is poorly understood. We ask: What is the relative importance of abiotic vs. biotic mechanisms of facilitation of tree saplings by shrubs in Mediterranean mountain forests? Location: Sierra Nevada, SE Spain (1800-1850 m a.s.l.) Methods: Saplings of four tree taxa ( Acer opalus ssp. granatense, Quercus ilex, Pinus nigra ssp. salzmanii and P. sylvestris var. nevadensis) were planted following a 2 x 2 factorial design: two levels of herbivory ( control and ungulate exclusion) and two microhabitats ( under shrubs and in open areas). Sapling survival and growth were monitored for five years. Results: Shrubs had positive effects on sapling survival both in control and ungulate excluded plots. This effect was species-specific, with shrubs increasing the survival of Acer opalus and Quercus ilex three and twofold, respectively, but having a minor effect on the Pinus species. Herbivory damage was also species-specific, being much higher for Acer opalus than for any other species. Shrubs did not protect saplings of any species against ungulates. Thus, all Acer saplings ( the most damaged species) suffered herbivory outside the exclosures, which largely reduced sapling height. Conclusions: Protection from abiotic stress ( summer drought and winter frost) was much more relevant than protection from biotic stress ( herbivory). However, we propose that the final balance between the two mechanisms can be expected to vary strongly between sites, depending on the relative magnitude of the different sources of stress and the intrinsic traits ( e. g. palatability) of the species interacting.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1100-9233	 	"[Gomez-Aparicio, Lorena; Zamora, Regino; Castro, Jorge; Hodar, Jose A.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Grp Ecol Terrestre, ES-18071 Granada, Spain.; Gomez-Aparicio, L (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Grp Ecol Terrestre, ES-18071 Granada, Spain.; lorenag@irnase.csic.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3170/2007-8-18347	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez-Aparicio,Lorena;Zavala,Miguel A.;Bonet,Francisco J.;Zamora,Regino"	Are pine plantations valid tools for restoring Mediterranean forests? An assessment along abiotic and biotic gradients	Ecological Applications	Ecol.Appl.	2009	DEC	19	8	2124	2141	"competition;environmental gradients;facilitation;management strategy;Mediterranean forests;pine plantations;regeneration;seed dispersal;Sierra Nevada National Park, Andalusia, southeast Spain;species diversity;stand density;INFLATED POISSON REGRESSION;SPECIES-RICHNESS;QUERCUS-ILEX;RAIN-FOREST;PLANT-COMMUNITIES;SPATIAL-PATTERNS;DEGRADED;LANDS;TREE SAPLINGS;NURSE PLANTS;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	"The ecological impacts of forest plantations are a focus of intense debate, from studies that consider plantations as ""biological deserts"" to studies showing positive effects on plant diversity and dynamics. This lack of consensus might be influenced by the scarcity of studies that examine how the ecological characteristics of plantations vary along abiotic and biotic gradients. Here we conducted a large-scale assessment of plant regeneration and diversity in plantations of southern Spain. Tree seedling and sapling density, plant species richness, and Shannon's (H') diversity index were analyzed in 442 pine plantation plots covering a wide gradient of climatic conditions, stand density, and distance to natural forests that act as seed sources. Pronounced variation in regeneration and diversity was found in plantation understories along the gradients explored. Low-to mid-altitude plantations showed a diverse and abundant seedling bank dominated by Quercus ilex, whereas high-altitude plantations showed a virtually monospecific seeding bank of Pinus sylvestris. Regeneration was null in plantations with stand densities exceeding 1500 pines/ha. Moderate plantation densities (500-1000 pines/ha) promoted recruitment in comparison to low or null canopy cover, suggesting the existence of facilitative interactions. Quercus ilex recruitment diminished exponentially with distance to the nearest Q. ilex forest. Richness and H' index values showed a hump-shaped distribution along the altitudinal and radiation gradients and decreased monotonically along the stand density gradient. From a management perspective, different strategies will be necessary depending on where a plantation lies along the gradients explored. Active management will be required in high-density plantations with arrested succession and low diversity. Thinning could redirect plantations toward more natural densities where facilitation predominates. Passive management might be recommended for low-to moderate-density plantations with active successional dynamics (e. g., toward oak or pine-oak forests at low to mid altitudes). Enrichment planting will be required to overcome seed limitation, especially in plantations far from natural forests. We conclude that plantations should be perceived as dynamic systems where successional trajectories and diversity levels are determined by abiotic constraints, complex balances of competitive and facilitative interactions, the spatial configuration of native seed sources, and species life-history traits."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1051-0761	 	"[Gomez-Aparicio, Lorena] CSIC, IRNAS, Inst Recursos Nat & Agrobiol, E-41080 Seville, Spain. [Zavala, Miguel A.] INIA, CIFOR, Madrid 28040, Spain. [Bonet, Francisco J.; Zamora, Regino] Ctr Andaluz Medio Ambiente, Granada 18006, Spain. [Bonet, Francisco J.; Zamora, Regino] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Fac Ciencias, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Gomez-Aparicio, L (reprint author), CSIC, IRNAS, Inst Recursos Nat & Agrobiol, POB 1052, E-41080 Seville, Spain.; lorenag@irnase.csic.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1890/08-1656.1	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez-Gutierrez,Alvaro;Juan de Sanjose-Blasco,Jose;de Matias-Bejarano,Javier;Berenguer-Sempere,Fernando"	Comparing Two Photo-Reconstruction Methods to Produce High Density Point Clouds and DEMs in the Corral del Veleta Rock Glacier (Sierra Nevada, Spain)	Remote Sensing	 	2014	JUN	6	6	5407	5427	"three dimensional photo-reconstruction (3D-PR);point cloud;terrestrial laser scanner (TLS);rock glacier;digital elevation models (DEMs);STRUCTURE-FROM-MOTION;SWISS ALPS;LOW-COST;TERRESTRIAL PHOTOGRAMMETRY;PERIGLACIAL ENVIRONMENTS;AERIAL PHOTOGRAMMETRY;MOUNTAIN PERMAFROST;BALTORO GLACIER;KINEMATIC GPS;DYNAMICS;Remote Sensing ER"	In this paper, two methods based on computer vision are presented in order to produce dense point clouds and high resolution DEMs (digital elevation models) of the Corral del Veleta rock glacier in Sierra Nevada (Spain). The first one is a semi-automatic 3D photo-reconstruction method (SA-3D-PR) based on the Scale-Invariant Feature Transform algorithm and the epipolar geometry theory that uses oblique photographs and camera calibration parameters as input. The second method is fully automatic (FA-3D-PR) and is based on the recently released software 123D-Catch that uses the Structure from Motion and MultiView Stereo algorithms and needs as input oblique photographs and some measurements in order to scale and geo-reference the resulting model. The accuracy of the models was tested using as benchmark a 3D model registered by means of a Terrestrial Laser Scanner (TLS). The results indicate that both methods can be applied to micro-scale study of rock glacier morphologies and processes with average distances to the TLS point cloud of 0.28 m and 0.21 m, for the SA-3D-PR and the FA-3D-PR methods, respectively. The performance of the models was also tested by means of the dimensionless relative precision ratio parameter resulting in figures of 1:1071 and 1:1429 for the SA-3D-PR and the FA-3D-PR methods, respectively. Finally, Digital Elevation Models (DEMs) of the study area were produced and compared with the TLS-derived DEM. The results showed average absolute differences with the TLS-derived DEM of 0.52 m and 0.51 m for the SA-3D-PR and the FA-3D-PR methods, respectively.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	2072-4292	 	"[Gomez-Gutierrez, Alvaro] Univ Extremadura, GeoEnvironm Res Grp, Caceres 10071, Spain. [Juan de Sanjose-Blasco, Jose; de Matias-Bejarano, Javier; Berenguer-Sempere, Fernando] Univ Extremadura, Geomat Engn Res Grp, Caceres 10071, Spain.; Gomez-Gutierrez, A (reprint author), Univ Extremadura, GeoEnvironm Res Grp, Avda Univ S-N, Caceres 10071, Spain.; alvgo@unex.es; jjblasco@unex.es; jmatias@unex.es; ferbese1@gmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3390/rs6065407	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez-Gutierrez,Alvaro;Juan de Sanjose-Blasco,Jose;Lozano-Parra,Javier;Berenguer-Sempere,Fernando;de Matias-Bejarano,Javier"	Does HDR Pre-Processing Improve the Accuracy of 3D Models Obtained by Means of two Conventional SfM-MVS Software Packages? The Case of the Corral del Veleta Rock Glacier	Remote Sensing	 	2015	AUG	7	8	10269	10294	"STRUCTURE-FROM-MOTION;PHOTO-RECONSTRUCTION METHODS;UNMANNED AERIAL;VEHICLE;SIERRA-NEVADA;TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEYS;PHOTOGRAMMETRY;SPAIN;EROSION;UAV;DYNAMICS;Remote Sensing ER"	The accuracy of different workflows using Structure-from-Motion and Multi-View-Stereo techniques (SfM-MVS) is tested. Twelve point clouds of the Corral del Veleta rock glacier, in Spain, were produced with two different software packages (123D Catch and Agisoft Photoscan), using Low Dynamic Range images and High Dynamic Range compositions (HDR) for three different years (2011, 2012 and 2014). The accuracy of the resulting point clouds was assessed using benchmark models acquired every year with a Terrestrial Laser Scanner. Three parameters were used to estimate the accuracy of each point cloud: the RMSE, the Cloud-to-Cloud distance (C2C) and the Multiscale-Model-to-Model comparison (M3C2). The M3C2 mean error ranged from 0.084 m (standard deviation of 0.403 m) to 1.451 m (standard deviation of 1.625 m). Agisoft Photoscan overcome 123D Catch, producing more accurate and denser point clouds in 11 out 12 cases, being this work, the first available comparison between both software packages in the literature. No significant improvement was observed using HDR pre-processing. To our knowledge, this is the first time that the geometrical accuracy of 3D models obtained using LDR and HDR compositions are compared. These findings may be of interest for researchers who wish to estimate geomorphic changes using SfM-MVS approaches.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	2072-4292	 	"[Gomez-Gutierrez, Alvaro; Lozano-Parra, Javier] Univ Extremadura, GeoEnvironm Res Grp, Caceres 10071, Spain. [Juan de Sanjose-Blasco, Jose; de Matias-Bejarano, Javier] Univ Extremadura, Geomat Engn Res Grp, Caceres 10071, Spain. [Berenguer-Sempere, Fernando] San Antonio Catholic Univ Murcia, Murcia 30107, Spain.; Gomez-Gutierrez, A (reprint author), Univ Extremadura, GeoEnvironm Res Grp, Avda Univ S-N, Caceres 10071, Spain.; alvgo@unex.es; jjblasco@unex.es; jlozano@outlook.es; fjberenguer@ucam.edu; jmatias@unex.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3390/rs70810269	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez-Ortiz,A.;Oliva,M.;Salvador-Franch,F.;Salva-Catarineu,M.;Palacios,D.;de Sanjose-Blasco,J. J.;Tanarro-Garcia,L. M.;Galindo-Zaldivar,J.;de Galdeano,C. Sanz"	Degradation of buried ice and permafrost in the Veleta cirque (Sierra Nevada, Spain) from 2006 to 2013 as a response to recent climate trends	Solid Earth	 	2014	 	5	2	979	993	"GROUND THERMAL REGIME;POLAR YEAR 2007-2009;ROCK GLACIER;SNOW COVER;SURFACE-TEMPERATURE;DEL VELETA;MOUNTAINS;EVOLUTION;AREA;VARIABILITY;Geochemistry & Geophysics ER"	The Veleta cirque is located at the foot of the Veleta peak, one of the highest summits of the Sierra Nevada National Park (southern Spain). This cirque was the source of a glacier valley during the Quaternary cold periods. During the Little Ice Age it sheltered a small glacier, the most southerly in Europe, about which we have possessed written records since the 17th century. This glacier still had ice residues until the mid-20th century. This ice is no longer visible, but a residue persists along with discontinuous permafrost trapped under strata of rock blocks that make up an incipient rock glacier. From 2006 to 2013, this rock glacier was monitored by measurement of the temperature of the active layer, the degree of snow cover on the ground, movements of the body of the rock glacier and geophysical prospection inside it. The results show that the relict ice and trapped permafrost have been steadily declining. The processes that explain this degradation occur in chain, starting from the external radiation that affects the ground in summer, which is when the temperatures are higher. In effect, when this radiation steadily melts the snow on the ground, the thermal expansive wave advances into the heart of the active layer, reaching the ceiling of the frozen mass, which it then degrades and melts. In this entire linked process, the circulation of meltwaters ful-fils a highly significant function, as they act as heat transmitters. The complementary nature of these processes explains the subsidence and continuous changes in the entire clastic pack and the melting of the frozen ceiling on which it rests. This happens in summer in just a few weeks. All these events, in particular the geomorphological ones, take place on the Sierra Nevada peaks within certain climate conditions that are at present unfavourable to the maintenance of snow on the ground in summer. These conditions could be related to recent variations in the climate, starting in the mid-19th century and most markedly since the second half of the 20th century. The work and results highlight the climate sensitivity of the peaks of the Sierra Nevada to the effect of climate change and its impact on the dynamics of ecosystems, which is a benchmark for evaluating the current evolution of landscapes of Mediterranean high mountains.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1869-9510	 	"[Gomez-Ortiz, A.; Salvador-Franch, F.; Salva-Catarineu, M.] Univ Barcelona, Dept Phys & Reg Geog, Barcelona 08001, Catalonia, Spain. [Oliva, M.] Univ Lisbon, Inst Geog & Spatial Planning, P-1600214 Lisbon, Portugal. [Palacios, D.; Tanarro-Garcia, L. M.] Univ Complutense Madrid, Dept Reg & Phys Geog, E-28040 Madrid, Spain. [de Sanjose-Blasco, J. J.] Univ Extremadura, Dept Expres Graf, Caceres 10071, Spain. [Galindo-Zaldivar, J.] Univ Granada, Dept Geodynam, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [de Galdeano, C. Sanz] Univ Granada, CSIC, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Oliva, M (reprint author), Univ Barcelona, Dept Phys & Reg Geog, Montalegre 6-8, Barcelona 08001, Catalonia, Spain.; oliva_marc@yahoo.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.5194/se-5-979-2014	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez-Ortiz,Antonio;Oliva,Marc;Salva-Catarineu,Montserrat;Salvador-Franch,Ferran"	The environmental protection of landscapes in the high semiarid Mediterranean mountain of Sierra Nevada National Park (Spain): Historical evolution and future perspectives	Applied Geography	Appl.Geogr.	2013	AUG	42	 	227	239	"Sierra Nevada;Landscape;Documentary sources;Heritage resources;Master plan for use and management;Sites of geomorphological interest;SE SPAIN;PREFERENCES;VEGETATION;PLAN;Geography ER"	Sierra Nevada is a protected mountain in the Iberian Peninsula classified as a Biosphere Reserve (1986), Natural Park (1989) and National Park (1999). All these environmental protection programmers are a consequence of its unique landscape in the context of the mid-latitude semiarid mountains, with enclaves of exceptional scientific and cultural value. Thanks to its high altitude, Sierra Nevada held the southernmost Quaternary glaciers in Europe, as well as it happened during the Little Ice Age. In turn, Sierra Nevada is also singular thanks to its vast cultural heritage, since very early societies settled on its slopes and valleys and accommodate their lifestyles and economy to the characteristics of this mountain environment. Currently, Sierra Nevada has become an important tourist centre and receives a large amount of visitors. This process of change has conditioned the implementation of a different economic model: it brings benefits to the populations but it involves changes in the landscape as well, sometimes questionable. From this perspective, a critical revision of the legislation is required balancing the sustainable economic development of the population and the preservation and safeguarding of the heritage values of the landscape. With this goal, we suggest creating and implementing the Sites of Geomorphological Interest. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0143-6228	 	"[Gomez-Ortiz, Antonio; Salva-Catarineu, Montserrat; Salvador-Franch, Ferran] Univ Barcelona, Dept Phys & Reg Geog, Barcelona 08001, Spain. [Oliva, Marc] Univ Lisbon, Inst Geog & Territorial Planning, P-1600214 Lisbon, Portugal.; Oliva, M (reprint author), Univ Lisbon, Inst Geog & Territorial Planning, Alameda Univ, P-1600214 Lisbon, Portugal.; gomez@ub.edu; oliva_marc@yahoo.com; salva@ub.edu; fsalvador@ub.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.apgeog.2013.02.006	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez-Ortiz,Antonio;Oliva-Franganillo,Marc;Salva-Catarineu,Montserrat;Salvador-Franch,Ferran"	Landscape as a heritage resource in protected areas: the case of Sierra Nevada National Park (Spain)	Scripta Nova-Revista Electronica De Geografia Y Ciencias Sociales	 	2010	Dec-20	14	346	 	 	"Heritage resource;Landscape;Master Plan for Use and Management;National Park;Sierra Nevada;Geography ER"	Sierra Nevada is a singular mountain range with an exceptional natural and cultural heritage. Natural landscapes are reflected in the rich biodiversity and wide range of landforms, which only have been weakly modified by human activities during the last centuries. The highest parts of the massif are protected under the consideration of National Park, which encompasses the diversity of the autochthonous flora, sedimentary records, Pleistocene-Holocene landscapes and human activities. The preservation of the natural resources in Sierra Nevada must be accompanied by sustainable development of the traditional economic activities in the massif and those more recent compatible with safeguarding the heritage resources of the landscape.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1138-9788	 	"[Gomez-Ortiz, Antonio] Univ Barcelona, Grp Recerca Paisatge & Paleoambients Muntanya Med, E-08007 Barcelona, Spain. Univ Barcelona, Serv Paisatge, E-08007 Barcelona, Spain.; Gomez-Ortiz, A (reprint author), Univ Barcelona, Grp Recerca Paisatge & Paleoambients Muntanya Med, E-08007 Barcelona, Spain."	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez-Ortiz,Antonio;Palacios,David;Palade,Bogdan;Vazquez-Selem,Lorenzo;Salvador-Franch,Ferran"	The deglaciation of the Sierra Nevada (Southern Spain)	Geomorphology	Geomorphology	2012	Jul-15	159	 	93	105	"Last Glacial Maximum;Deglaciation;Rock glacier;Cosmogenic dating;Sierra Nevada;Holocene;NORTHERN ALPINE FORELAND;BE-10 EXPOSURE AGES;LATE PLEISTOCENE;ROCK-GLACIER;ICE-CORE;MEDITERRANEAN MOUNTAINS;SPANISH PYRENEES;EUROPEAN ALPS;EASTERN ALPS;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	Cosmogenic Cl-36 surface exposure dating was carried out on 19 samples from glacially polished bedrock, rock glaciers and moraines of four glaciated valleys with different orientations in the Sierra Nevada (Spain) around Pico del Veleta (37 degrees 3'N 3 degrees 21'W, 3398 m asl). Remains of moraines older than the global Last Glacial Maximum exist, but their poor preservation makes them an unreliable subject for surface exposure dating. Results show that the last local glacial maximum advance took place earlier than the global Last Glacial Maximum, but within the MIS 2, although additional dating is needed to confirm this. Exposure ages from bedrock steps show a general glacier retreat in progress by 15-14 ka. Shortly afterwards an extensive system of rock glaciers formed at the base of the valley headwalls, with the most recent rock glacier lasting until 7 ka ago. From their location, morphology and analysis of other proxies, we interpret their origin as related to the deglaciation process and marked instability of cirque headwalls, rather than to extreme periglacial conditions. A recent similar occurrence was the transformation of the Little Ice Age glacier on the north face of the Pico del Veleta into a rock glacier under temperate high mountain climatic conditions. (c) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0169-555X	 	"[Palacios, David] Univ Complutense Madrid, Fac Geog & Hist, Dept AGR & Geog Fis, E-28040 Madrid, Spain. [Gomez-Ortiz, Antonio; Salvador-Franch, Ferran] Univ Barcelona, Dept Geog Fis & Anal Geog Reg, E-08007 Barcelona, Spain. [Palade, Bogdan] Ctr Satelites Union Europea EUSC, Torrejon De Ardoz, Madrid, Spain. [Vazquez-Selem, Lorenzo] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Inst Geog, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico.; Palacios, D (reprint author), Univ Complutense Madrid, Fac Geog & Hist, Dept AGR & Geog Fis, C Prof Aranguren S-N,Ciudad Univ, E-28040 Madrid, Spain.; davidp@ghis.ucm.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.geomorph.2012.03.008	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez-Ortiz,Antonio;Palacios,David;Schulte,Lothar;Salvador-Franch,Ferran;Plana-Castellvi,Josep A."	Evidences from Historical Documents of Landscape Evolution After Little Ice Age of a Mediterranean High Mountain Area, Sierra Nevada, Spain (Eighteenth to Twentieth Centuries)	Geografiska Annaler Series A-Physical Geography	 	2009	 	91A	4	279	289	"Little Ice Age;high mountain area;landscape evolution;Sierra Nevada;Spain;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	"The Sierra Nevada is the highest mountain system on the Iberian Peninsula (Mulhacen 3482 m; Veleta 3308 m) and is located in the extreme SE region of Spain (lat 37 degrees N, long 3 degrees W). Bibliographic resources, particularly from the eighteenth to twentieth centuries, provide insights into the changing summit landscape as the effects of cold, ice, snow and wind shaped its morphology. The selected references emphasize the Sierra's evolving climate reflected in the glaciers and snow hollows, and in the sparse vegetation above certain altitudes. Scientists had established bioclimatic conditions for the entire range in the early nineteenth century, and their works reflect the progression of ideas, particularly in the area of natural sciences, that influenced the period chosen for this study. This information, in addition to current knowledge about the morphogenetic dynamics of the Sierra Nevada, provides the basis for a comparison of the dominant environments from the Little Ice Age to the present, using the most significant high mountain morphological features as a guide. The most relevant findings indicate that cold climate processes (soli-gelifluction, frost creep and nivation) were more predominant during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries than they are today."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0435-3676	 	"[Gomez-Ortiz, Antonio; Schulte, Lothar; Salvador-Franch, Ferran; Plana-Castellvi, Josep A.] Univ Barcelona, Dept Phys Geog & Reg Geog Anal, Barcelona 08001, Spain. [Palacios, David] Univ Complutense, Dept Reg Geog Anal & Phys Geog, E-28040 Madrid, Spain.; Gomez-Ortiz, A (reprint author), Univ Barcelona, Dept Phys Geog & Reg Geog Anal, Montalegre 6-8, Barcelona 08001, Spain.; gomez@ub.edu; davidp@ghis.ucm.es; schulte@ub.edu; fsalvador@ub.edu; japlana@ub.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez-Pugnaire,M. T.;Rubatto,D.;Fernandez-Soler,J. M.;Jabaloy,A.;Lopez-Sanchez-Vizcaino,V.;Gonzalez-Lodeiro,F.;Galindo-Zaldivar,J.;Padron-Navarta,J. A."	Late Variscan magmatism in the Nevado-Filabride Complex: U-Pb geochronologic evidence for the pre-Mesozoic nature of the deepest Betic complex (SE Spain)	Lithos	Lithos	2012	AUG	146	 	93	111	"Betic Cordillera;Nevado-Filabride Complex;U-Pb zircon geochronology;Peraluminous leucogranites;Recycled Variscan crust;WESTERN SIERRA-NEVADA;CENTRAL IBERIA;PERALUMINOUS GRANITES;SOUTHERN;SPAIN;PAN-AFRICAN;ZIRCON AGES;CORDILLERA;EVOLUTION;MASSIF;EXHUMATION;Geochemistry & Geophysics;Mineralogy ER"	Orthogneisses crop out in different lithostratigraphic positions throughout the Nevado-Filabride metamorphic Complex (Betic Cordillera, southern Spain). Their abundance offers the opportunity to establish its origin and to date the ages of acid magmatism and of early deposition ages of metasedimentary host rocks of the orthogneisses, in this complex metamorphosed and deformed during the Alpine Orogeny. Petrography and bulk-rock chemistry indicate that the orthoderivates samples are peraluminous tourmaline leucogranites and strongly peraluminous biotite gneisses. Compositional similarity in different outcrops points to common genetic relationships. Although the studied gneisses are affected by metamorphic and deformational processes their compositional variations may be explained by differing degrees of crustal melting, source heterogeneity or minor feldspar fractionation. Variation in REE contents is attributed to accessory minerals fractionation. The geochemical data show that the protoliths originated by low degree of partial melting of biotite-rich, muscovite-plagioclase-bearing metasediments. U-Pb SHRIMP dating of magmatic zircons from six samples yielded ages between similar to 282 +/- 5 and 295 +/- 3 Ma. Their ages and chemical composition indicate that these intrusive bodies strongly resemble the peraluminous, post-tectonic, leucogranites widespread in the Variscan Orogen, particularly those produced by crustal partial melting of the Central Iberian Zone. Zircons in host pelitic metasediments provide older ages ranging from similar to 336 to 2.050 Ma. They testify to the recycling of Early Carboniferous and older granites, which are found in the Central Iberian zones of the Iberian Massif. The new geochronological data combined with detailed field observations allow drafting a new chronostratigraphy of the Nevado-Filabride Complex. Traditionally proposed Triassic ages for the metasedimentary upper series of the complex are not consistent with the ages reported here, which suggests that the entire complex consists of Paleozoic or older rocks. This conclusion has profound implications on the validity of the tectonic subdivisions proposed so far. Metamorphic zircon rims in two gneisses and a pelitic metasediment yield Miocene (17.3 +/- 0.4 Ma) ages in line with what previously proposed for the high-pressure metamorphic peak in the Nevado-Filabride Complex. The new radiometric data moreover confirm independent metamorphic and tectonic evolutions for the Nevado-Filabride and the Alpujarride complexes of the Betic Cordillera. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0024-4937	 	"[Gomez-Pugnaire, M. T.; Fernandez-Soler, J. M.; Padron-Navarta, J. A.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Mineral & Petrol, Granada 18002, Spain. [Rubatto, D.] Australian Natl Univ, Res Sch Earth Sci, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia. [Jabaloy, A.; Gonzalez-Lodeiro, F.; Galindo-Zaldivar, J.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Geodinam, Granada 18002, Spain. [Lopez-Sanchez-Vizcaino, V.] Univ Jaen, Escuela Politecn Super, Dept Geol, Unidad Asociada CSIC IACT Granada, Linares 23700, Spain. [Gomez-Pugnaire, M. T.; Fernandez-Soler, J. M.; Galindo-Zaldivar, J.] Univ Granada, CSIC, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra, Granada 18002, Spain.; Gomez-Pugnaire, MT (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Mineral & Petrol, Campus Fuentenueva S-N, Granada 18002, Spain.; teresa@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.lithos.2012.03.027	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gonzalez-Gonzalez,E. A.;Gonzalez-Perez,M. A.;Rivero,E.;Sosa,P. A."	Isolation and characterization of microsatellite loci in Sorbus aria (Rosaceae)	Conservation Genetics Resources	 	2010	SEP	2	 	341	343	"Sorbus aria;Microsatellite;Canary Islands;Genetic diversity;Triploid;MALOIDEAE ROSACEAE;DNA;Biodiversity & Conservation;Genetics & Heredity ER"	"Sorbus aria (L) Crantz (Common Whitebeam) is native to Europe, east of the Balkans and in North Africa; it is also present in the Canary Islands. To evaluate the genetic diversity in natural populations of this vulnerable species, nine novel polymorphic microsatellite markers were isolated from enriched libraries. Microsatellite loci were screened in 97 individuals from La Palma (Canary Islands) and Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain). Examination of the microsatellite profiles shows that S. aria individuals have up to three alleles per locus. The cloned sequences in microsatellite loci confirmed the polyploidy status of the plants. The number of alleles ranged from 5 to 14 per locus. The phenotype diversities across loci (H'(T)) ranging from 0.653 to 0.847."	"PT: J; SU: 1"	 		 	 	 	 				 	1877-7252	 	"[Gonzalez-Gonzalez, E. A.; Gonzalez-Perez, M. A.; Rivero, E.; Sosa, P. A.] Univ Las Palmas Gran Canaria, Dept Biol, Las Palmas Gran Canaria 35017, Canary Islands, Spain.; Sosa, PA (reprint author), Univ Las Palmas Gran Canaria, Dept Biol, Campus Univ Tafira, Las Palmas Gran Canaria 35017, Canary Islands, Spain.; edna.gonzalez101@doctorandos.ulpgc.es; mgonzalez@proyinves.ulpgc.es; erivero@becarios.ulpgc.es; psosa@dbio.ulpgc.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s12686-010-9238-x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gonzalez-Megias,Adela;Maria Gomez,Jose;Sanchez-Pinero,Francisco"	Spatio-temporal change in the relationship between habitat heterogeneity and species diversity	Acta Oecologica-International Journal of Ecology	 	2011	MAY-JUN	37	3	179	186	"Similarity;Species composition;PERMANOVA;Mediterranean ecosystems;Habitat-heterogeneity hypothesis;GROUND BEETLES COLEOPTERA;BETA-DIVERSITY;CONSERVATION PRIORITIES;BIODIVERSITY HOTSPOTS;SPATIAL-DISTRIBUTION;LANDSCAPE STRUCTURE;IBERIAN PENINSULA;NORTHERN BORNEO;GRADIENT;FORESTS;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	"Beta diversity plays an important role in mediating species diversity and therefore improves our understanding of species-diversity patterns. One principal theoretical framework exists for such patterns, the ""habitat-heterogeneity hypothesis (HHH)"", which postulates a positive relationship between species diversity and habitat heterogeneity. Although HHH is widely accepted, spatial and temporal variability has been found in the relationship between diversity and heterogeneity. Species turnover has been proposed as the main factor explaining spatial variation in the relationship between species diversity and habitat heterogeneity. In this study, we tested the role of species turnover in explaining spatial and temporal variability on diversity-heterogeneity relationship in a Mediterranean ecosystem, using beetles as the study organisms. A hierarchical design including different habitats and years was used to test our hypothesis. Using different multivariate analyses, we tested for spatial and temporal variability in beta diversity, and in the beetle diversity-heterogeneity relationship using two diversity indices. Our study showed that beetle composition changed spatially and temporally, although temporal change was evident only between sampling periods but not between years. Notably, there was spatial and temporal change in the relationship between habitat descriptors and beetle diversity. Nevertheless, there was no correlation between the changes in beetle composition with the changes in the habitat-heterogeneity relationships. In this Mediterranean system, spatial and temporal changes in the diversity-heterogeneity relationships cannot be predicted by species turnover, and other mechanisms need to be explored to satisfactorily explain this variability. (C) 2011 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1146-609X	 	"[Gonzalez-Megias, Adela; Sanchez-Pinero, Francisco] Univ Granada, Dpto Biol Anim, Fac Ciencias, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Maria Gomez, Jose] Univ Granada, Dpto Ecol, Fac Ciencias, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Gonzalez-Megias, A (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dpto Biol Anim, Fac Ciencias, C Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; adelagm@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.actao.2011.01.011	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gonzalez-Megias,Adela;Maria Gomez,Jose;Sanchez-Pinero,Francisco"	Factors determining beetle richness and composition along an altitudinal gradient in the high mountains of the Sierra Nevada National Park (Spain)	Ecoscience	Ecoscience	2008	 	15	4	429	441	"alpha diversity;biotic and abiotic factors;multivariate analysis;species assemblage;standardized richness indices;NORTHERN IBERIAN PENINSULA;SPECIES-RICHNESS;ELEVATIONAL GRADIENT;RAPOPORTS RULE;PITFALL TRAPS;DIVERSITY;HABITAT;CONSERVATION;ABUNDANCE;BUTTERFLIES;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	"Once of the more common and dramatic patterns observed in species abundance and richness is that imposed by altitude. Many non-exclusive factors have been proposed to explain these altitudinal patterns, including climate habitat structure, productivity, geographical factors, and historical factors. In this study, we investigated the altitudinal trend of beetle richness and diversity. trying to determine the factors affecting beetle diversity and composition along an altitudinal gradient on a high mountain of the Sierra Nevada National Park (Spain), Beetles were sampled every 15 d for 2 y using pitfall traps at 10 altitudinal sites located between 2000 and 3000 m asl. Against predictions, beetle diversity and the standardized richness indices were not correlated with altitude. Insteads, lower richness and diversity values were found at middle altitude in the selected altitudinal range. Although a combination of biotic and abiotic factors satisfactorily explained these richness and diversity values, the main factor was plant diversity, which was correlated with all richness and diversity indices. A second factor was temperature; however, the interaction between beetle richness and temperature was evident only when the effect of plant diversity was removed. Multivariate analysis for species composition showed that 2 factors, plant diversity and shrill) cover, explained more than 50% of the variance observed. In summary, our results suggest a strong dependence of beetle on vegetation structure and diversity. although temperature appears to be a complementary factor determining beetle richness and diversity in the high mountains of the Serra Nevada National Park."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1195-6860	 	"[Gonzalez-Megias, Adela; Sanchez-Pinero, Francisco] Univ Granada, Dept Biol Anim, Granada, Spain. [Maria Gomez, Jose] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Granada, Spain.; Gonzalez-Megias, A (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Biol Anim, Granada, Spain.; adelagm@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.2980/15-4-3105	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Grayson,Donald K.;Millar,Constance I."	Prehistoiric human influence on the abundance and distiribution of deadwood in alpine landscapes	Perspectives in Plant Ecology Evolution and Systematics	 	2008	 	10	2	101	108	"alpine treeline;western USA;holocene;anthropogenic impacts;archeology;dendrochronology;SIERRA-NEVADA;CLIMATE-CHANGE;WHITE MOUNTAINS;HIGH-ALTITUDE;GREAT-BASIN;TIMBERLINE;CALIFORNIA;WOOD;CHRONOLOGY;DYNAMICS;Plant Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Scientists have long inferred the locations of past treelines from the distribution of deadwood above modern tree boundaries. Although it is recognized that deadwood above treeline may have decayed, the absence of such wood is routinely taken to imply the absence of trees for periods ranging from the past few millennia to the entire Holocene. Reconstructed treeline histories are then explained in terms of such variables as slope, drainage, temperature, solar insolation, and precipitation. While these variables certainly help determine where deadwood is to be found above treeline today, we suggest that they cannot always explain where it is not to be found. In the alpine environments of the western United States, archeological work has established a human presence during nearly the entire Holocene in portions of the Rocky Mountains and for over 5000 radiocarbon years in the Great Basin and Sierra Nevada. We suggest that prehistoric occupations may have stripped deadwood from the landscape in all of these areas. To the extent that this is true, reconstructions of past treelines from deadwood may reflect the human prehistory of an area as much as it reflects treeline history itself. We encourage evaluation of this hypothesis in areas of active dendrochronological and archeological research. (c) 2008 Rubel Foundation, ETH Zurich. Published by Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1433-8319	 	"[Grayson, Donald K.] Univ Washington, Dept Anthropol, Seattle, WA 98195 USA. [Millar, Constance I.] US Forest Serv, USDA, Sierra Nevada Res Ctr, Pacific SW Res Stn, Berkeley, CA 94710 USA.; Grayson, DK (reprint author), Univ Washington, Dept Anthropol, Box 353100, Seattle, WA 98195 USA.; grayson@u.washington.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.ppees.2008.01.002	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Guareschi,S.;Gutierrez-Canovas,C.;Picazo,F.;Sanchez-Fernandez,D.;Abellan,P.;Velasco,J.;Millan,A."	Aquatic macroinvertebrate biodiversity: patterns and surrogates in mountainous Spanish national parks	Aquatic Conservation-Marine and Freshwater Ecosystems	 	2012	JUL	22	5	598	615	"biodiversity indicators;aquatic conservation;macroinvertebrates;protected areas;Spanish national parks;FRESH-WATER BIODIVERSITY;SPECIES RICHNESS;INDICATOR;TAXA;ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES;CONSERVATION PRIORITIES;CATCHMENT;PROPERTIES;REDUNDANCY ANALYSIS;COMMUNITY STRUCTURE;PLANT BIODIVERSITY;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology;Water Resources ER"	In Spain, national parks represent the mainstay of conservation polices and attempt to protect the most representative natural ecosystems. However, studies on the ecology and conservation of aquatic biodiversity within protected areas are still scarce. This study aimed at compiling an inventory of the macroinvertebrate families inhabiting the aquatic ecosystems of each mountainous Spanish national park (Sierra Nevada, Cabaneros, Ordesa, Picos de Europa, Aiguestortes and Monfrague). The results were used to answer two questions: (i) Which environmental variables are related to macroinvertebrate composition and richness in these protected ecosystems? (ii) Which taxon or group of taxa could act as biodiversity surrogates? Sampling was carried out in 81 aquatic ecosystems across the six national parks during the summers of 2008-2010. The national parks with the highest richness were Picos de Europa and Cabaneros. Overall, the six parks incorporated 66.2% of the taxa included in the Iberian checklist. Multivariate techniques showed that maximum altitude and the presence of lotic habitats were the most important variables related to different community compositions. The best richness model included the presence of a lotic habitat, together with the percentage of the catchment area with non-irrigated agriculture and siliceous geology. Selecting several diverse lotic and lentic water bodies at different altitudes provides the best way of representing Iberian macroinvertebrate diversity. Coleoptera family richness may be used as a macroinvertebrate biodiversity surrogate in Iberian mountainous protected areas because it displayed the highest correlation with the other taxonomic groups and remaining richness values. Such an indicator could be complemented with the use of Odonata family richness for standing waters. The adequacy of Coleopera and Odonata as biodiversity surrogates should be tested at a wider geographic scale, and other surrogacy concepts (e.g. community composition) considered for assessing the role of this network in the protection of rare and endemic species. Copyright (c) 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1052-7613	 	"[Guareschi, S.; Gutierrez-Canovas, C.; Picazo, F.; Sanchez-Fernandez, D.; Velasco, J.; Millan, A.] Univ Murcia, Dept Ecol & Hidrol, E-30001 Murcia, Spain. [Abellan, P.] Aarhus Univ, Dept Biosci, Aarhus, Denmark.; Guareschi, S (reprint author), Univ Murcia, Dept Ecol & Hidrol, Campus Espinardo, E-30001 Murcia, Spain.; simone.guareschi@um.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1002/aqc.2256	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Helbling,E. W.;Carrillo,P.;Medina-Sanchez,J. M.;Duran,C.;Herrera,G.;Villar-Argaiz,M.;Villafane,V. E."	Interactive effects of vertical mixing, nutrients and ultraviolet radiation: in situ photosynthetic responses of phytoplankton from high mountain lakes in Southern Europe	Biogeosciences	 	2013	 	10	2	1037	1050	"DISSOLVED ORGANIC-MATTER;SOLAR UV-RADIATION;INDUCED DNA-DAMAGE;FRESH-WATER;MARINE-PHYTOPLANKTON;CHLOROPHYLL FLUORESCENCE;INDUCED;PHOTOINHIBITION;PRIMARY PRODUCTIVITY;CLIMATE-CHANGE;PHOSPHORUS;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Geology ER"	"Global change, together with human activities, has resulted in increasing amounts of organic material (including nutrients) that water bodies receive. This input further attenuates the penetration of solar radiation, leading to the view that opaque lakes are more ""protected"" from solar ultraviolet radiation (UVR) than clear ones. Vertical mixing, however, complicates this view as cells are exposed to fluctuating radiation regimes, for which the effects have, in general, been neglected. Furthermore, the combined impacts of mixing, together with those of UVR and nutrient inputs are virtually unknown. In this study, we carried out complex in situ experiments in three high mountain lakes of Spain (Lake Enol in the National Park Picos de Europa, Asturias, and lakes Las Yeguas and La Caldera in the National Park Sierra Nevada, Granada), used as model ecosystems to evaluate the joint impact of these climate change variables. The main goal of this study was to address the question of how short-term pulses of nutrient inputs, together with vertical mixing and increased UVR fluxes modify the photosynthetic responses of phytoplankton. The experimentation consisted in all possible combinations of the following treatments: (a) solar radiation: UVR+ PAR (280-700 nm) versus PAR (photosynthetically active radiation) alone (400-700 nm); (b) nutrient addition (phosphorus (P) and nitrogen (N)): ambient versus addition (P to reach to a final concentration of 30 mu g P L-1, and N to reach N: P molar ratio of 31); and (c) mixing: mixed (one rotation from surface to 3m depth (speed of 1 m 4 min(-1), total of 10 cycles)) versus static. Our findings suggest that under ambient nutrient conditions there is a synergistic effect between vertical mixing and UVR, increasing phytoplankton photosynthetic inhibition and excretion of organic carbon (EOC) from opaque lakes as compared to algae that received constant mean irradiance within the epilimnion. The opposite occurs in clear lakes where antagonistic effects were determined, with mixing partially counteracting the negative effects of UVR. Nutrient input, mimicking atmospheric pulses from Saharan dust, reversed this effect and clear lakes became more inhibited during mixing, while opaque lakes benefited from the fluctuating irradiance regime. These climate change related scenarios of nutrient input and increased mixing, would not only affect photosynthesis and production in lakes, but might also further influence the microbial loop and trophic interactions via enhanced EOC under fluctuating UVR exposure."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1726-4170	 	"[Helbling, E. W.; Villafane, V. E.] Estn Fotobiol Playa Union, RA-9103 Rawson, Chubut, Argentina. [Helbling, E. W.; Villafane, V. E.] Consejo Nacl Invest Cient & Tecn CONICET, RA-9103 Rawson, Chubut, Argentina. [Carrillo, P.; Duran, C.; Herrera, G.] Univ Granada, Inst Univ Invest Agua, Granada, Spain. [Medina-Sanchez, J. M.; Villar-Argaiz, M.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Granada, Spain.; Helbling, EW (reprint author), Estn Fotobiol Playa Union, Casilla Correos 15, RA-9103 Rawson, Chubut, Argentina.; whelbling@efpu.org.ar"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.5194/bg-10-1037-2013	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Herrero,Asier;Castro,Jorge;Zamora,Regino;Delgado-Huertas,Antonio;Querejeta,Jose I."	Growth and stable isotope signals associated with drought-related mortality in saplings of two coexisting pine species	Oecologia	Oecologia	2013	DEC	173	4	1613	1624	"Drought stress;Tree mortality;Leaf delta C-13;Leaf delta O-18;Mediterranean mountain;INDUCED TREE MORTALITY;SCOTS PINE;MEDITERRANEAN MOUNTAINS;NORTHERN;ARIZONA;CONCEPTUAL-MODEL;NURSE PLANTS;DRY-MATTER;EL-NINO;DIE-OFF;CLIMATE;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Drought-induced events of massive tree mortality appear to be increasing worldwide. Species-specific vulnerability to drought mortality may alter patterns of species diversity and affect future forest composition. We have explored the consequences of the extreme drought of 2005, which caused high sapling mortality (approx. 50 %) among 10-year-old saplings of two coexisting pine species in the Mediterranean mountains of Sierra Nevada (Spain): boreo-alpine Pinus sylvestris and Mediterranean P. nigra. Sapling height growth, leaf delta C-13 and delta O-18, and foliar nitrogen concentration in the four most recent leaf cohorts were measured in dead and surviving saplings. The foliar isotopic composition of dead saplings (which reflects time-integrated leaf gas-exchange until mortality) displayed sharp increases in both delta C-13 and delta O-18 during the extreme drought of 2005, suggesting an important role of stomatal conductance (g(s)) reduction and diffusional limitations to photosynthesis in mortality. While P. nigra showed decreased growth in 2005 compared to the previous wetter year, P. sylvestris maintained similar growth levels in both years. Decreased growth, coupled with a sharper increase in foliar delta O-18 during extreme drought in dead saplings, indicate a more conservative water use strategy for P. nigra. The different physiological behavior of the two pine species in response to drought (further supported by data from surviving saplings) may have influenced 2005 mortality rates, which contributed to 2.4-fold greater survival for P. nigra over the lifespan of the saplings. This species-specific vulnerability to extreme drought could lead to changes in dominance and distribution of pine species in Mediterranean mountain forests.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0029-8549	 	"[Herrero, Asier; Castro, Jorge; Zamora, Regino] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Grp Ecol Terr, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Delgado-Huertas, Antonio] Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra CSIC UGR, Grp Biogeoquim Isotopos Estables, Granada 18100, Spain. [Querejeta, Jose I.] CSIC, CEBAS, Murcia 30100, Spain.; Herrero, A (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Grp Ecol Terr, Dept Ecol, Avda Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; asier@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s00442-013-2707-7	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Herrero,J.;Polo,M. J."	Parameterization of atmospheric longwave emissivity in a mountainous site for all sky conditions	Hydrology and Earth System Sciences	 	2012	 	16	9	3139	3147	"WAVE-RADIATION;THERMAL-RADIATION;OVERCAST SKIES;CLEAR;SURFACE;MODEL;SNOW;ENVIRONMENTS;SENSITIVITY;IRRADIANCE;Geology;Water Resources ER"	Longwave radiation is an important component of the energy balance of the Earth's surface. The downward component, emitted by the clouds and aerosols in the atmosphere, is rarely measured, and is still not well understood. In mountainous areas, direct observations are even scarcer and the fitting of existing models is often subjected to local parameterization in order to surplus the particular physics of the atmospheric profiles. The influence of clouds makes it even harder to estimate for all sky conditions. This work presents a long-time continuous dataset of high-resolution longwave radiation measured in a weather station at a height of 2500ma.s.l. in Sierra Nevada, Spain, together with the parameterization of the apparent atmospheric emissivity for clear and cloudy skies resulting from three different schemes. We evaluate the schemes of Brutsaert, and Crawford and Duchon with locally adjusted coefficients and compare them with a completely parametric expression adjusted for these data that takes into account three possible significant atmospheric states related to the cloud cover: clear, completely covered, and partly covered skies. All the parametric expressions are related to the screen-level values of temperature, relative humidity and solar radiation, which can be frequently found in standard weather stations. Unobserved cloudiness measurements needed for Brutsaert scheme for cloudy sky are also parameterized from screen-level measurements. The calibration performed for a 6-yr period at the study site resulted in satisfactory estimations of emissivity for all the analyzed schemes thanks to the local fitting of the parameterizations, with the best achievement found for the completely parametric expression. Further validation of the expressions in two alternative sites showed that the greater accuracy of the latter can also be found in very close sites, while a better performance of the Brutsaert scheme, with a more physical background and the successful parameterization of the clouds effect, is found in nearby sites outside the initial mountain range. The results show the feasibility for the local calibration of expressions to estimate instantaneous atmospheric emissivity for all sky conditions only using surface data, either with a completely parametric scheme if longwave data are available, or through obtaining of locally fitted coefficients for Brutsaert and derived schemes. Nevertheless, the best performance of the first approach would be at the expense of a reduced local applicability.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1027-5606	 	"[Herrero, J.] Univ Granada, Fluvial Dynam & Hydrol Res Grp, Interuniv Res Inst Earth Syst Andalucia, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Polo, M. J.] Univ Cordoba, Fluvial Dynam & Hydrol Res Grp, Interuniv Res Inst Earth Syst Andalucia, E-14071 Cordoba, Spain.; Herrero, J (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fluvial Dynam & Hydrol Res Grp, Interuniv Res Inst Earth Syst Andalucia, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; herrero@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.5194/hess-16-3139-2012	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Herrero,J.;Polo,M. J.;Monino,A.;Losada,M. A."	An energy balance snowmelt model in a Mediterranean site	Journal of Hydrology	 	2009	Jun-05	371	01-Apr	98	107	"Snow;Evaporation;Energy balance;Mediterranean;MIDLATITUDE ALPINE SITE;RADIATION;CLEAR;SURFACE;SUBLIMATION;FORMULA;CLIMATE;BUDGET;SKIES;Engineering;Geology;Water Resources ER"	This article describes the development and calibration of a mass and energy balance snowmelt point model for the south-facing slope of the Sierra Nevada Mountains (Spain) and brings attention to snow processes taking place in a Mediterranean site, especially to high evaporation rates. This mountain range has peaks rising to 3500 m, and is located at latitude 37 degrees N, surrounded by a mild Mediterranean climate. Energy balance over the snowpack is subjected to very changeable weather conditions such as episodic strong low humidity winds, clear skies with very low nocturnal temperatures, intense solar radiation and sudden increases in temperatures. We found the behavior of the snow to be extremely variable throughout the year, especially in regards to melting cycles and evaporation. Simulations, based on snow water equivalent measurements, show that during 2004-2005. 42% of the total snow precipitation evaporated. Only 124 mm of the 300 mm of snowfall collected at the monitoring point actually melted. However, evaporation can range from 80% in December to 20% during the spring months and from 20% to 40% between years. The variability of the balance of energy fluxes acting on the snow cover in this basin means that all fluxes will be important at some point during the accumulation process. This is an excellent context for testing an energy balance model because of the widely diverse situations occurring at this location during the same time period. In order to calibrate the model, it was necessary to remove the stability-correction factors for non-adiabatic temperature gradients of the turbulent transfer, which are important for evaporation. The sensible-heat transfer coefficient in windless conditions is raised to 6 W/m(2) K. An empirical relationship for atmospheric emissivity calculation is derived from the observed relative humidity, as the well-known Brutsaert's formula clearly underestimated this value under cloudy skies. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0022-1694	 	"[Herrero, J.; Monino, A.; Losada, M. A.] Univ Granada, Grp Dinam Flujos Ambientales, Ctr Andaluz Medio Ambiente, Granada 18006, Spain. [Polo, M. J.] Univ Cordoba, Grp Hidraul & Hidrol Agr, Area Ingn Hidraul, E-14071 Cordoba, Spain.; Herrero, J (reprint author), Univ Granada, Grp Dinam Flujos Ambientales, Ctr Andaluz Medio Ambiente, Av Mediterraneo S-N, Granada 18006, Spain.; herrero@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.jhydrol.2009.03.021	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Herrero,Javier;Polo,Maria J.;Losada,Miguel A."	Snow evolution in Sierra Nevada (Spain) from an energy balance model validated with Landsat TM data	Remote Sensing for Agriculture, Ecosystems, and Hydrology Xiii	 	2011	 	8174	 	817403	817403	"Snow;modelling;Landsat;Mediterranean;snow cover;THEMATIC MAPPER;COVER;RESOLUTION;Remote Sensing;Optics;Imaging Science & Photographic Technology ER"	Sierra Nevada Mountains are the highest continental altitude in Spain. Located in the South, facing the Mediterranean Sea in a distance of less than 40 km, the high level of solar energy income throughout the year, together with the extremely variable character of climate in such latitudes, make it necessary to use energy balance approaches to characterize the snow cover evolution. Wind and relative humidity become decisive factors in the evolution of the snow cover due to the high evaporation rates that can arise under favourable meteorological conditions. This work presents the enhanced capability of the combination of Landsat TM data with the simulation of an energy balance model to produce sequences of hourly high resolution maps of snow cover and depth distribution under variable meteorological conditions such as those found in Mediterranean mountainous watersheds. Despite the good agreement found between observed and predicted snow pixels, different examples of disagreement arose in the boundaries, most of them related to the temperature and wind speed spatial pattern simulation together with the discrimination between rain and snowfall occurrence.	PT: S	 	Neale, CMU Maltese, A Richter,K.	Proceedings of SPIE	 	 	 				 	"0277-786X; 978-0-81948-801-5"	 	"[Herrero, Javier] Univ Granada, Fluvial Dynam & Hydrol Res Grp, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Herrero, J (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fluvial Dynam & Hydrol Res Grp, Edf CEAMA Av Mediterraneo S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; herrero@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1117/12.898270	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Ho,Winnie W.;Connolly,Sara G.;Reynolds,Pamela L.;Cornelius,Jamie M.;MacDougall-Shackleton,Elizabeth A.;Morton,Martin L.;Pereyra,Maria E.;Hahn,Thomas P."	Song exposure during juvenile dispersal in Mountain White-crowned Sparrows	Auk	Auk	2014	APR	131	2	208	214	"birdsong;dialect;juvenile dispersal;learning;White-crowned Sparrow;Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha;ZONOTRICHIA-LEUCOPHRYS-ORIANTHA;SELECTIVE ATTRITION;BIRD-SONG;SIERRA-NEVADA;DIALECTS;MONTANE;OVERPRODUCTION;EVOLUTION;PATTERNS;BEHAVIOR;Zoology ER"	The degree to which local song structure reflects the singer's population of origin is a long-standing and contentious issue. Young songbirds that settle to breed outside their natal song-dialect area may learn to produce nonnatal dialect by hearing and memorizing these songs during juvenile dispersal. We quantified adult singing rates in a population of Mountain White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha) in the Sierra Nevada in 2 yr, and compared them with the arrival schedule of juveniles not hatched on the study area. Our results show that opportunities for juveniles to learn new (nonnatal) song types become highly limited during the premigratory dispersal phase, because adult singing rates are very low by the time nonlocal juveniles begin to arrive. Thus, if individuals learn nonnatal songs during dispersal, they must do so hearing relatively few repetitions of the unfamiliar dialect.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0004-8038	 	"[Ho, Winnie W.; Reynolds, Pamela L.; Cornelius, Jamie M.; Hahn, Thomas P.] Univ Calif Davis, Dept Neurobiol Physiol & Behav, Davis, CA 95616 USA. [Connolly, Sara G.; MacDougall-Shackleton, Elizabeth A.] Princeton Univ, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Princeton, NJ 08544 USA. [Cornelius, Jamie M.; Hahn, Thomas P.] Univ Calif Davis, Anim Behav Grad Grp, Davis, CA 95616 USA. [MacDougall-Shackleton, Elizabeth A.] Western Univ, Dept Biol, London, ON, Canada. [MacDougall-Shackleton, Elizabeth A.] Western Univ, Adv Facil Avian Res, London, ON, Canada. [Morton, Martin L.] Occidental Coll, Dept Biol, Los Angeles, CA 90041 USA. [Pereyra, Maria E.] No Arizona Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA.; Ho, WW (reprint author), Indiana Univ, Dept Biol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA.; wwho@indiana.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1642/AUK-12-120-R2.1	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Hodar,Jose A.;Torres-Muros,Lucia;Senhadji,Karim"	Timing and intensity of bush cricket predation on egg batches of pine processionary moth: no evidence of population control	Agricultural and Forest Entomology	Agricult.For.Entomol.	2013	MAY	15	2	204	211	"Egg-batch predation;generalist predator;habitat selection;numerical response;phenological synchrony;THAUMETOPOEA-PITYOCAMPA DEN.;GENERALIST PREDATORS;NATURAL ENEMIES;SCHIFF.;LEPIDOPTERA;SPECIALIST;FORESTS;FRANCE;CYCLES;LEP.;Entomology ER"	Bush crickets (Orthoptera, Tettigoniidae) are known predators of egg batches of the pine processionary moth (Thaumetopoea pityocampa Denis and Schiffermuller, Lepidoptera: Notodontidae), a severe pest in Mediterranean pine woodlands. Bush crickets have been proposed as biological control agents of T. pityocampa populations, although their characteristics as generalist predators suggest that this would be possible only during the low-density phases of the processionary population cycle. We combined observational and experimental approaches aiming to determine the role played by the bush cricket Steropleurus andalusius as a regulator of T.pityocampa. The synchrony of the phenology of T. pityocampa egg batches and the activity of bush crickets was poor, with the activity of bush crickets being longer than the period during which egg batches were available. The predation rate of bush crickets reached 23%, varied in time and space, and was independent of T. pityocampa egg-batch density. There was no relationship between the egg-batch densities and bush cricket abundance, and no response to experimental variations in egg-batch density. Analysis of microhabitat selection suggests that T. pityocampa egg-batch predation is a by-product of the substrate selected by bush crickets for mating, and does not correspond with active searching of egg batches as food. These findings do not rule out the possibilty of bush crickets being natural regulators of T. pityocampa populations, although they impose limits with respect to their future use in biological control.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1461-9555	 	"[Hodar, Jose A.; Torres-Muros, Lucia; Senhadji, Karim] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Hodar, JA (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jhodar@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/afe.12006	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Hodar,Jose A.;Torres-Muros,Lucia;Zamora,Regino;Perez-Luque,Antonio J.;Senhadji,Karim"	No evidence of induced defence after defoliation in three pine species against an expanding pest, the pine processionary moth	Forest Ecology and Management	For.Ecol.Manage.	2015	Nov-15	356	 	166	172	"Bioassay;Chemical defence;Defoliation;Food quality;Lepidoptera;CATERPILLAR THAUMETOPOEA-PITYOCAMPA;INSECT HERBIVORES;SCOTS PINE;CLIMATE-CHANGE;PLANT DEFENSE;LODGEPOLE PINE;GLOBAL CHANGE;WOODY-PLANTS;HOST PLANTS;FORESTS;Forestry ER"	Trees may react against defoliation by producing new tissues with modified morphological and nutritive characteristics, in order to prevent future herbivore attacks. In this work, we analyse the capacity of three pine species, namely cluster (Pinus pinaster), black (Pinus nigra) and Scots (Pinus sylvestris) pine, naturally set along an altitudinal gradient (1350-2000 m a.s.l. in SE Spain), to produce an induced defence against defoliation by an expanding pest, the pine processionary moth (Thaumetopoea pityocampa). Pines were subjected to experimental defoliation, and the tree response was analysed by means of chemical analysis and bioassays with first-instar larvae of T. pityocampa. None of the pine species showed a notable change in chemistry after experimental defoliation, suggesting that chemical defences in pines represent constitutive rather than inducible defences. However, constitutive defences do not deter T. pityocampa, and larval survival did not vary depending of the previous damage suffered by trees. These results indicate that the three pine species analysed have a low capacity to respond after T. pityocampa attack, and thus a limited induced response against the herbivory caused by this specialist insect. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	"PT: J; SI: SI"	 		 	 	 	 				 	0378-1127	 	"[Hodar, Jose A.; Torres-Muros, Lucia; Zamora, Regino; Perez-Luque, Antonio J.; Senhadji, Karim] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Grp Ecol Terr, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Perez-Luque, Antonio J.] Univ Granada, Inst Interuniv Invest Sistema Tierra Andalucia CE, Lab Ecol iEcolab, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Hodar, JA (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Grp Ecol Terr, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jhodar@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.foreco.2015.07.022	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Huertegn,Jochen;Rudersdorf,Andreas;Gruetzner,Christoph;Reicherter,Klaus"	Morphotectonics of the Padul-Niguelas Fault Zone, southern Spain	Annals of Geophysics	 	2013	 	56	6	S0679	S0679	"BETIC CORDILLERA;SIERRA-NEVADA;ACTIVE TECTONICS;SE SPAIN;IBERIAN;PENINSULA;MIOCENE;BASIN;DEFORMATION;QUATERNARY;EVOLUTION;Geochemistry & Geophysics ER"	The Padul-Niguelas Fault Zone (PNFZ) is situated at the south-western mountain front of the Sierra Nevada (southern Spain) in the Internal Zone of the Betic Cordilleras and belongs to a NW-SE trending system of normal faults dipping SW. The PNFZ constitutes a major tectonic and lithological boundary in the Betics, and separates the metamorphic units of the Alpujdrride Complex from Upper Tertiary to Quaternary deposits. Due to recent seismicity and several morphological and geological indicators, such as preserved fault scarps, triangular facets, deeply incised valleys and faults in the colluvial wedges, the PNFZ is suspected to be a tectonically active feature of the south-eastern Granada Basin. We performed morphotectonic GIS analyses based on digital elevation models (DEM, cell size: 10 m) to obtain tectonic activity classes for each out-cropping segment of the PNFZ. We have determined the following geomorphic indices: mountain front sinuosity, stream-length gradient index, concavity index and valley floor width to height ratio. The results show a differentiation in the states of activity along the fault zone strike. The western and eastern segments of the PNFZ indicate a higher tectonic activity compared to the center of the fault zone. We discuss and critically examine the comparability and reproducibility of geomorphic analyses, concluding that careful interpretation is necessary, if no ground-truthing can be performed.	"PT: J; SI: SI"	 		 	 	 	 				 	1593-5213	 	"[Huertegn, Jochen; Rudersdorf, Andreas; Gruetzner, Christoph; Reicherter, Klaus] Rhein Westfal TH Aachen, Aachen, Germany.; Rudersdorf, A (reprint author), Rhein Westfal TH Aachen, Aachen, Germany.; a.rudersdorf@nug.rwth-aachen.de"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.4401/ag-6208	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Ibanez-Alamo,Juan D.;Soler,Manuel"	Eurasian Sparrowhawk (Accipiter Nisus) as Predator of Eurasian Blackbird (Turdus Merula) Nests	Journal of Raptor Research	 	2012	JUN	46	2	230	232	"Eurasian Sparrowhawk;Accipiter nisus;Eurasian Blackbird;Turdus merula;nest predation;PARENTAL CARE;RISK-TAKING;BEHAVIOR;Zoology ER"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0892-1016	 	"[Ibanez-Alamo, Juan D.; Soler, Manuel] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Ibanez-Alamo, JD (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jia@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Iniesta-Arandia,Irene;Garcia-Llorente,Marina;Aguilera,Pedro A.;Montes,Carlos;Martin-Lopez,Berta"	Socio-cultural valuation of ecosystem services: uncovering the links between values, drivers of change, and human well-being	Ecological Economics	Ecol.Econ.	2014	DEC	108	 	36	48	"Critical ecosystem services;Semi-arid watershed;Social perceptions;Stakeholders;Tradeoffs;Value conflicts;SOCIAL PREFERENCES;TRADE-OFFS;CHOICE EXPERIMENT;SIERRA-NEVADA;CONSERVATION;SPAIN;BIODIVERSITY;MANAGEMENT;POLICY;LAND;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Business & Economics ER"	"Ecosystem services studies currently lack information regarding stakeholders' socio-cultural values. This information is highly relevant to human well-being, which is the motivation of ecosystem services assessments. We present results from an analysis of stakeholders' perceptions of ecosystem services, well-being and drivers of change in two semi-arid watersheds in south-eastern Spain. Based on the information compiled through a literature review, participant observation and semi-structured interviews, we designed a questionnaire and conducted 381 interviews. Our results show that semiarid watersheds deliver a large variety of ecosystem services; however, these services are perceived in different ways. We identified five stakeholder groups, including: locals dependent on provisioning ecosystem services, locals not directly dependent on provisioning ecosystem services, environmental and local development professionals and rural and nature tourists. Overall, provisioning services related to traditional practices were perceived as highly important and highly vulnerable by every stakeholder group. However, we found contrasting perceptions of some ecosystem services among stakeholders and of the relevant drivers of change and wellbeing. We suggest that socio-cultural valuation is a useful tool to prioritize ecosystem services but more attention should be directed to emerging trade-offs. Linking values to other stakeholder perceptions might be a useful way to move forward in ecosystem services valuation. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0921-8009	 	"[Iniesta-Arandia, Irene; Garcia-Llorente, Marina; Montes, Carlos; Martin-Lopez, Berta] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Dept Ecol, Social Ecol Syst Lab, E-28049 Madrid, Spain. [Garcia-Llorente, Marina] Univ Carlos III Madrid, Dept Polit Sci & Sociol, Sociol Clinuite Change & Sustainable Dev Res Grp, Madrid, Spain. [Aguilera, Pedro A.] Univ Almeria, Dept Plant Biol & Ecol, Almeria 04120, Spain.; Iniesta-Arandia, I (reprint author), Univ Autonoma Madrid, Dept Ecol, Social Ecol Syst Lab, C-201,C Darwin 2,Edificio Biol, E-28049 Madrid, Spain.; irene.iniesta@uam.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.ecolecon.2014.09.028	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Israelevich,P.;Ganor,E.;Alpert,P.;Kishcha,P.;Stupp,A."	Predominant transport paths of Saharan dust over the Mediterranean Sea to Europe	Journal of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres	 	2012	Jan-27	117	 	D02205	D02205	"MINERAL DUST;PARTICLES;EPISODES;PRECIPITATION;CLIMATOLOGY;VARIABILITY;ATMOSPHERE;ISRAEL;BASIN;Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences ER"	We use monthly data of aerosol optical thickness (AOT) from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer on board the seven NASA Terra and Aqua satellites for a 10 year period (2001-2010) in order to determine seasonal variations of Saharan dust transport over the Mediterranean toward Europe. The maxima of AOT are used to visualize the transport paths. Saharan dust reaches Europe over the Mediterranean and also by looping back over the Atlantic. In spring, aerosols are observed within a wide range of longitudes in Europe, with the highest AOT over western Europe. This may be partially explained by dust transport to western Europe via the Atlantic route, while to central and eastern Europe, dust is transported over the Mediterranean. During all seasons, dust is transported over the Mediterranean to Europe. In the summer months, aerosols are observed predominantly in central Europe. In autumn, aerosol activity is strongest in eastern Europe. We show that there are local AOT maxima over north Italy, in the Alps, in Spain, southeast of the Pyrenees and Sierra Nevada, and in the Rila Mountains in Bulgaria. We suggest that these maxima of aerosol concentration appear as the dust-carrying airflow reaches the mountains and slows.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	2169-897X	 	"[Israelevich, P.; Ganor, E.; Alpert, P.; Kishcha, P.; Stupp, A.] Tel Aviv Univ, Dept Geophys & Planetary Sci, IL-69978 Tel Aviv, Israel.; Israelevich, P (reprint author), Tel Aviv Univ, Dept Geophys & Planetary Sci, IL-69978 Tel Aviv, Israel.; peter@post.tau.ac.il"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1029/2011JD016482	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Ivkovic,Marija;Zamora-Munoz,Carmen;Sainz-Bariain,Marta;Sinclair,Bradley J."	Aquatic Empididae (Diptera: Hemerodromiinae and Clinocerinae) of the Sierra Nevada, Spain, with the description of five new species	Zootaxa	 	2014	Apr-14	3786	5	541	556	"Clinocerinae;Hemerodromiinae;Empididae;Diptera;new species;Sierra Nevada;Spain;Zoology ER"	In total 24 species of aquatic Empididae (Clinocerinae and Hemerodromiinae) are known from the Sierra Nevada Mountains of Spain, including five new species (Hemerodromia planti Ivkovic & Sinclair sp. nov., Kowarzia nevadensis Sinclair & Ivkovic sp. nov., Wiedemannia darioi Sinclair & Ivkovic sp. nov., W. horvati Ivkovic & Sinclair sp. nov. and W. vedranae Ivkovic & Sinclair sp. nov.). The new species are described, illustrated and distribution of all species listed. Wiedemannia (Philolutra) angelieri Vaillant and W. (Roederella) ouedorum Vaillant are newly recorded in Sierra Nevada and nine species are endemic to this region. A key to all 24 species of aquatic empidids is presented.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1175-5326	 	"[Ivkovic, Marija] Univ Zagreb, Fac Sci, Div Biol, Dept Zool, Zagreb 10000, Croatia. [Zamora-Munoz, Carmen; Sainz-Bariain, Marta] Univ Granada, Dept Zool, Granada, Spain. [Sinclair, Bradley J.] Canadian Natl Collect Insects, Ottawa, ON, Canada. [Sinclair, Bradley J.] Canadian Food Inspect Agcy, Ottawa Plant Lab Entomol, Ottawa, ON, Canada.; Ivkovic, M (reprint author), Univ Zagreb, Fac Sci, Div Biol, Dept Zool, Rooseveltov Trg 6, Zagreb 10000, Croatia.; mivkovic@biol.pmf.hr; czamora@ugr.es; msainzb@ugr.es; bradley.sinclair@inspection.gc.ca"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jabaloy-Sanchez,Antonio;Teresa Gomez-Pugnaire,Maria;Padron-Navarta,Jose Alberto;Lopez Sanchez-Vizcaino,Vicente;Garrido,Carlos J."	Subduction- and exhumation-related structures preserved in metaserpentinites and associated metasediments from the Nevado-Filabride Complex (Betic Cordillera, SE Spain)	Tectonophysics	Tectonophysics	2015	Mar-16	644	 	40	57	"Atg-serpentinite;Chl-harzburgite;Transpressional deformation;Brittle deformations;Betic Chain;CERRO DEL ALMIREZ;PRESSURE METAMORPHIC ROCKS;WESTERN SIERRA-NEVADA;SOUTHERN SPAIN;SHEAR-ZONE;ANTIGORITE SERPENTINITE;CONTINENTAL;SUBDUCTION;CHLORITE HARZBURGITE;ALPUJARRIDE COMPLEX;SOUTHEASTERN;SPAIN;Geochemistry & Geophysics ER"	The Cerro del Almirez massif (Nevado-Filabride Complex, Betic Cordillera, SE Spain) is composed of antigorite (Atg-) serpentinite and chlorite (Chl-) harzburgite separated by a thin reaction front formed in a palaeo-subduction setting. These ultramafic rocks preserve unique prograde structures related to the pre- and peak high-pressure event (1.6-1.9 GPa and 680-710 degrees C). The oldest subduction-related structures are preserved in Atg-serpentinites: a penetrative S-1 foliation and associated L-1 stretching lineation that formed in a non-coaxial regime with a top-to-the-W sense of shear. This planar-linear fabric is crosscut by olivine +/- Ti-clinohumite veins, formed during the prograde breakdown of brucite and pre-metamorphic clinopyroxene, which form a system of veins decimetres long. They record embrittlement processes due to the release of 6 vol.% of H2O associated with brucite dehydration. The growth of prograde olivine and/or tremolite porphyroblasts is syn- to post-kinematic in relation to the S-1 foliation. Further reactions at higher temperature related to the complete break-down of the Atg (i.e. Atg-out) are post-kinematic to S-1. Prograde Chl-harzburgite is crosscut by sets of conjugate zones associated with grain-size reduction of olivine grains. These grain-size reduction zones are interpreted as brittle structures generated by hydrofracturing due to overpressure fluids in a compressional setting at low-differential stresses. Structures related to the exhumation process are mainly preserved in the metasedimentary host rock, where an S-2/L-2 planar-linear fabric developed within a shear zone dominated by a non-coaxial regime with a top-to-the-W sense of movement in a transpressional regime. Peak metamorphic conditions deduced for the schists are similar in pressure (1.3-1.9 GPa) but lower in temperature (560-590 degrees C) compared to the ultramafic rocks in contact with them, suggesting a major shear zone at the base of the ultramafic massif during D-2 deformation in a right-handed transpressional regime. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0040-1951	 	"[Jabaloy-Sanchez, Antonio] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Geodinam, Granada 18002, Spain. [Teresa Gomez-Pugnaire, Maria] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Mineral & Petrol, Granada 18002, Spain. [Teresa Gomez-Pugnaire, Maria; Garrido, Carlos J.] Univ Granada, CSIC, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra, E-18001 Granada, Spain. [Padron-Navarta, Jose Alberto] Univ Montpellier 2, Geosci Montpellier, F-34095 Montpellier, France. [Padron-Navarta, Jose Alberto] CNRS, F-34095 Montpellier, France. [Lopez Sanchez-Vizcaino, Vicente] Univ Jaen, Escuela Politecn Super, Dept Geol, Unidad Asociada CSIC IACT Granada, Linares 23700, Spain.; Jabaloy-Sanchez, A (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Geodinam, Campus Fuentenueva S-N, Granada 18002, Spain.; jabaloy@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.tecto.2014.12.022	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Javier Zamora-Camacho,Francisco;Reguera,Senda;Virtudes Rubino-Hispan,Maria;Moreno-Rueda,Gregorio"	Eliciting an immune response reduces sprint speed in a lizard	Behavioral Ecology	Behav.Ecol.	2015	JAN-FEB	26	1	115	120	"elevation;immune system;Psammodromus algirus;sprint speed;TRADE-OFFS;LOCOMOTOR PERFORMANCE;PSAMMODROMUS-ALGIRUS;LIFE-HISTORY;PREDATION RISK;INCREASES PREDATION;ESCAPE PERFORMANCE;UROSAURUS-ORNATUS;HABITAT STRUCTURE;LACERTID LIZARDS;Behavioral Sciences;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Zoology ER"	Predators and pathogens can diminish organisms' fitness, and consequently natural selection favors antipredatory and antiparasitic strategies. Nevertheless, as both kinds of strategies consume resources, animals cannot maximize investment in both strategies simultaneously, which should lead to trade-offs between the two. Accordingly, we hypothesize that there is a trade-off between sprint capacity and immune response, which are among the most important antipredatory and antiparasitic strategies, respectively, of many animals. Consequently, we predict that animals eliciting an immune response should reduce their sprint capacity. We experimentally tested this prediction in the lizard Psammodromus algirus. A group of lizards was inoculated with the antigen LPS (lipopolysaccharide of the cell wall of Escherichia coli), which activates the immune system, whereas the other group (control) was inoculated with phosphate buffer, which has no physiological effect. Before and after the inoculations, we filmed sprint capacity of lizards, estimating the maximal sprint speed. Males were faster than females before the activation of their immune system. Nonetheless, males' sprint speed diminished after the inoculation of LPS, whereas females' did not. Therefore, our results support the hypothesis of a trade-off between sprint speed and immune response in males. Consequently, male lizards combating a pathogen may suffer either higher risk of predation, or reduced fitness if they avoid this risk by spending more time in shelter.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1045-2249	 	"[Javier Zamora-Camacho, Francisco; Reguera, Senda; Virtudes Rubino-Hispan, Maria; Moreno-Rueda, Gregorio] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Zamora-Camacho, FJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; zamcam@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1093/beheco/aru170	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Javier Zamora-Camacho,Francisco;Virtudes Rubino-Hispan,Maria;Reguera,Senda;Moreno-Rueda,Gregorio"	Thermal dependence of sprint performance in the lizard Psammo-dromus algirus along a 2200-meter elevational gradient: Cold-habitat lizards do not perform better at low temperatures	Journal of thermal biology	J.Therm.Biol.	2015	AUG	52	 	90	96	"Body temperature;Elevation;Psammodromus algirus;Reproductive condition;Sprint speed;LOCOMOTOR PERFORMANCE;BODY-TEMPERATURE;ANOLIS LIZARDS;ALTITUDINAL;GRADIENT;MEDITERRANEAN LIZARD;SCELOPORUS-UNDULATUS;RELATIVE;IMPORTANCE;ESCAPE PERFORMANCE;COLLARED LIZARDS;LACERTID LIZARDS;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Zoology ER"	Sprint speed has a capital relevance in most animals' fitness, mainly for fleeing from predators. Sprint performance is maximal within a certain range of body temperatures in ectotherms, whose thermal upkeep relies on exogenous thermal sources. Ectotherms can respond to diverse thermal environments either by shifting their thermal preferences or maintaining them through different adaptive mechanisms. Here, we tested whether maximum sprint speed of a lizard that shows conservative thermal ecology along a 2200-meter elevational gradient differs with body temperature in lizards from different elevations. Lizards ran faster at optimum than at suboptimum body temperature. Notably, high-elevation lizards were not faster than mid- and low-elevation lizards at suboptimum body temperature, despite their low-quality thermal environment. This result suggests that both preferred body temperature and thermal dependence of speed performance are co-adapted along the elevational gradient. High-elevation lizards display a number of thermoregulatory strategies that allow them to achieve high optimum body temperatures in a low thermal-quality habitat and thus maximize speed performance. As for reproductive condition, we did not find any effect of it on sprint speed, or any significant interaction with elevation or body temperature. However, strikingly, gravid females were significantly slower than males and non-gravid females at suboptimum temperature, but performed similarly well at optimal temperature. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0306-4565	 	"[Javier Zamora-Camacho, Francisco; Virtudes Rubino-Hispan, Maria; Reguera, Senda; Moreno-Rueda, Gregorio] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Zamora-Camacho, FJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; zamcam@ugr.es; m.v.hispan@gmail.com; sreguera@ugr.es; gmr@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.jtherbio.2015.06.003	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jesus Lopez-Rodriguez,Manuel;Miguel Luzon-Ortega,Julio;Manuel Tierno de Figueroa,Jose"	On the biology of two high mountain populations of stoneflies (Plecoptera, Perlodidae) in the southern Iberian Peninsula	Limnetica	 	2012	DEC	31	2	205	212	"Perlodes microcephalus;Isoperla nevada;life cycle;nymphal feeding;Sierra Nevada;Spain;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	On the biology of two high mountain populations of stoneflies (Plecoptera, Perlodidae) in the southern Iberian Peninsula The life history of two species of Perlodidae stoneflies, Perlodes microcephalus (Pictet, 1833) and Isoperla nevada Aubert, 1952, are studied in a high mountain stream of the Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain). Both species show a univoltine life cycle. The nymphal development of P. microcephalus occurs mainly in summer and autumn, and adults emerge at the end of spring. The embryonic development period is short, taking only two months. I. nevada develops and grows mainly during the summer, but the embryonic development period is even shorter. Despite both species having a relatively similar nymphal development period, P. microcephalus reaches a considerably larger size than I. nevada. The two taxa behave as predators, but P. microcephalus exhibits a wider prey spectrum. Thus, although I. nevada is more abundant in the studied stream, P. microcephalus appears to play a more important role as top predator.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0213-8409	 	"[Jesus Lopez-Rodriguez, Manuel] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Miguel Luzon-Ortega, Julio] Hydraena SLL, Granada 18170, Spain. [Manuel Tierno de Figueroa, Jose] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Jesus Lopez-Rodriguez, Manuel; Manuel Tierno de Figueroa, Jose] Univ Granada, Inst Agua, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Lopez-Rodriguez, MJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Campus Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; manujlr@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jesus Mendoza-Fernandez,Antonio;Javier Perez-Garcia,Francisco;Martinez-Hernandez,Fabian;Salmeron-Sanchez,Esteban;Miguel Medina-Cazorla,Jose;Antonio Garrido-Becerra,Juan;Isabel Martinez-Nieto,Maria;Encarna Merlo,Maria;Francisco Mota,Juan"	Areas of endemism and threatened flora in a Mediterranean hotspot: Southern Spain	Journal for Nature Conservation	 	2015	FEB	23	 	35	44	"Endangered flora;Endemic flora;Biodiversity loss;Biogeography;Conservation;Mediterranean Basin;CONSERVATION PRIORITIES;BIODIVERSITY HOTSPOTS;OPTIMALITY CRITERION;PLACE PRIORITIZATION;PLANT BIODIVERSITY;EASTERN ANDALUSIA;SPECIES;RICHNESS;PATTERNS;BASIN;Biodiversity & Conservation;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	"A new methodology combining the concepts of endemicity and threat in order to provide an objective and highly accurate selection of protected areas is defined. This is a new method to recognize areas of endemism which combines the results yielded by NDM program, based on the optimality criterion, and those obtained using MARXAN software, designed to ensure the representation of species in the management of biodiversity. The method has been tested using the endemic and threatened vascular flora of the South of the Iberian Peninsula (Andalusia). Eleven areas of endemism have been identified in this territory; Sierra Nevada, Sierra Bermeja and Sierra Tejeda y Almijara stand out primarily. Although most of the areas dealt with in our study are already efficiently protected, the intermountain depression known as the Hoya de Baza, an arid area, and Sierra de Gador are exceptions. This new methodology provided a useful tool in the fine-tuning of the selection of areas of endemism. A more precise and flexible selection of scale-dependent endemicity areas was accomplished in this manner. The combination of both criteria (endemicity and threat) not only provides a reliable representation of areas of endemism, but also optimum efficiency in terms of endemicity and presence threatened of species. This approach offers a more objective and flexible strategy which can be implemented on different scales. A lot of alternatives can be generated, so the same conservation objective can be achieved by different combinations of solutions. This is a great advantage for the prioritization of territories meriting conservation. (C) 2014 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1617-1381	 	"[Jesus Mendoza-Fernandez, Antonio; Javier Perez-Garcia, Francisco; Martinez-Hernandez, Fabian; Salmeron-Sanchez, Esteban; Miguel Medina-Cazorla, Jose; Antonio Garrido-Becerra, Juan; Isabel Martinez-Nieto, Maria; Encarna Merlo, Maria; Francisco Mota, Juan] Univ Almeria, Dept Biol & Geol, E-04120 La Canada De San Urbano, Almeria, Spain.; Mendoza-Fernandez, AJ (reprint author), Univ Almeria, Dept Biol & Geol, Cite 2-B Ctra,Sacramento S-N, E-04120 La Canada De San Urbano, Almeria, Spain.; amf788@ual.es; fpgarcia@ual.es; fmh177@ual.es; esanchez@ual.es; Jmc808@ual.es; jgb901@ual.es; isabelmn@ual.es; emerlo@ual.es; jmota@ual.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.jnc.2014.08.001	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jesus Munoz-Pajares,A.;Belen Herrador,M.;Abdelaziz,Mohamed;Xavier Pico,F.;Sharbel,Timothy F.;Gomez,Jose M.;Perfectti,Francisco"	Characterization of Microsatellite Loci in Erysimum Mediohispanicum (Brassicaceae) and Cross-Amplification in Related Species	American Journal of Botany	Am.J.Bot.	2011	OCT	98	10	E287	E289	"Brassicaceae;cross-amplification;Erysimum mediohispanicum;microsatellites;COROLLA SHAPE;POLLINATORS;Plant Sciences ER"	Premise of the study : We have developed and optimized microsatellite loci from a genomic library of Erysimum mediohispanicum. Microsatellites were also tested for cross-amplification in 31 other Erysimum species. Methods and Results : A total of 10 microsatellite loci were successfully amplified. They were polymorphic for 81 E. mediohispanicum individuals from two locations in Sierra Nevada (southeastern Spain), which showed similar patterns of genetic diversity. On average, microsatellites had 8.6 alleles per locus and an expected heterozygosity of 0.69. Only one locus significantly departed from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium in both locations. Most of the markers successfully amplified in other Erysimum species. Conclusions : The genetic attributes of microsatellite loci will allow their application to population genetic studies in Erysimum, such as genetic differentiation and structure, gene flow, pollinator-mediated speciation, and hybridization studies.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0002-9122	 	"[Jesus Munoz-Pajares, A.; Abdelaziz, Mohamed; Perfectti, Francisco] Univ Granada, Dept Genet, Granada, Spain. [Belen Herrador, M.; Gomez, Jose M.] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Granada, Spain. [Xavier Pico, F.] CSIC, EBD, Dept Ecol Integrat, E-41080 Seville, Spain. [Sharbel, Timothy F.] Leibniz Inst Pflanzengent & Kulturpflanzenforsch, Apomixis Res Grp, Gatersleben, Germany.; Munoz-Pajares, AJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Genet, Granada, Spain.; ajesusmp@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3732/ajb.1100181	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jesus Perez-Luque,Antonio;Javier Bonet,Francisco;Perez-Perez,Ramon;Aspizua,Rut;Lorite,Juan;Zamora,Regino"	Sinfonevada: Dataset of Floristic diversity in Sierra Nevada forests (SE Spain)	Phytokeys	 	2014	 	35	 	1	15	"Sierra Nevada;Spain;floristic inventories;vascular plant;Liliopsida;Magnoliopsida;global-change monitoring;occurrence;observation;PINE PLANTATIONS;FLORA;Plant Sciences ER"	The Sinfonevada database is a forest inventory that contains information on the forest ecosystem in the Sierra Nevada mountains (SE Spain). The Sinfonevada dataset contains more than 7,500 occurrence records belonging to 270 taxa (24 of these threatened) from floristic inventories of the Sinfonevada Forest inventory. Expert field workers collected the information. The whole dataset underwent a quality control by botanists with broad expertise in Sierra Nevada flora. This floristic inventory was created to gather useful information for the proper management of Pinus plantations in Sierra Nevada. This is the only dataset that shows a comprehensive view of the forest flora in Sierra Nevada. This is the reason why it is being used to assess the biodiversity in the very dense pine plantations on this massif. With this dataset, managers have improved their ability to decide where to apply forest treatments in order to avoid biodiversity loss. The dataset forms part of the Sierra Nevada Global Change Observatory (OBSNEV), a long-term research project designed to compile socio-ecological information on the major ecosystem types in order to identify the impacts of global change in this area.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1314-2011	 	"[Jesus Perez-Luque, Antonio; Javier Bonet, Francisco; Perez-Perez, Ramon; Zamora, Regino] Univ Granada, Inst Interuniv Invest Sistema Tierra Andalucia CE, Lab Ecol iEcolab, Granada 18006, Spain. [Zamora, Regino] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Grp Ecol Terr, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Aspizua, Rut] Consejeria Medio Ambiente & Ordenac Terr, Agencia Medio Ambiente & Agua Andalucia, Granada 18003, Spain. [Lorite, Juan] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Bot, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Perez-Luque, AJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Inst Interuniv Invest Sistema Tierra Andalucia CE, Lab Ecol iEcolab, Ave Mediterraneo S-N, Granada 18006, Spain.; ajperez@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3897/phytokeys.35.6363	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jesus Perez-Luque,Antonio;Miguel Barea-Azcon,Jose;Alvarez-Ruiz,Lola;Javier Bonet-Garcia,Francisco;Zamora,Regino"	Dataset of Passerine bird communities in a Mediterranean high mountain (Sierra Nevada, Spain)	Zookeys	 	2016	 	 	552	137	154	"Passerines;Sierra Nevada (Spain);global-change monitoring;Mediterranean high mountain;species composition;abundance;SPANISH-ORNITHOLOGY-SOCIETY;CASTILIAN NAMES;CLIMATE-CHANGE;SOUTHERN;SPAIN;WORLD;PASSERIFORMES;BIODIVERSITY;DRIVERS;SCIENCE;IMPACT;Zoology ER"	In this data paper, a dataset of passerine bird communities is described in Sierra Nevada, a Mediterranean high mountain located in southern Spain. The dataset includes occurrence data from bird surveys conducted in four representative ecosystem types of Sierra Nevada from 2008 to 2015. For each visit, bird species numbers as well as distance to the transect line were recorded. A total of 27847 occurrence records were compiled with accompanying measurements on distance to the transect and animal counts. All records are of species in the order Passeriformes. Records of 16 different families and 44 genera were collected. Some of the taxa in the dataset are included in the European Red List. This dataset belongs to the Sierra Nevada Global-Change Observatory (OBSNEV), a long-term research project designed to compile socio-ecological information on the major ecosystem types in order to identify the impacts of global change in this area.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1313-2989	 	"[Jesus Perez-Luque, Antonio; Alvarez-Ruiz, Lola; Javier Bonet-Garcia, Francisco; Zamora, Regino] Univ Granada, Inst Interuniv Invest Sistema Tierra Andalucia CE, Lab Ecol iEcolab, Granada 18006, Spain. [Jesus Perez-Luque, Antonio; Javier Bonet-Garcia, Francisco; Zamora, Regino] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Grp Ecol Terrestre, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Miguel Barea-Azcon, Jose] Consejeria Medio Ambiente & Ordenac Terr Junta de, Agencia Medio Ambiente & Agua, E-18013 Granada, Spain.; Perez-Luque, AJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Inst Interuniv Invest Sistema Tierra Andalucia CE, Lab Ecol iEcolab, Ave Mediterraneo S-N, Granada 18006, Spain.; ajperez@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3897/zookeys.552.6934	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jesus Perez-Luque,Antonio;Patricia Sanchez-Rojas,Cristina;Zamora,Regino;Perez-Perez,Ramon;Javier Bonet,Francisco"	Dataset of Phenology of Mediterranean high-mountain meadows flora (Sierra Nevada, Spain)	Phytokeys	 	2015	 	46	 	89	107	"Wet high-mountain meadows;abundance;phenology;Sierra Nevada (Spain);long-term research;global change monitoring;occurrence;observation;COVER-ABUNDANCE VALUES;TRANSFORMATION;CONSERVATION;Plant Sciences ER"	Sierra Nevada mountain range (southern Spain) hosts a high number of endemic plant species, being one of the most important biodiversity hotspots in the Mediterranean basin. The high-mountain meadow ecosystems (borreguiles) harbour a large number of endemic and threatened plant species. In this data paper, we describe a dataset of the flora inhabiting this threatened ecosystem in this Mediterranean mountain. The dataset includes occurrence data for flora collected in those ecosystems in two periods: 1988-1990 and 2009-2013. A total of 11002 records of occurrences belonging to 19 orders, 28 families 52 genera were collected. 73 taxa were recorded with 29 threatened taxa. We also included data of cover-abundance and phenology attributes for the records. The dataset is included in the Sierra Nevada Global-Change Observatory (OBSNEV), a long-term research project designed to compile socio-ecological information on the major ecosystem types in order to identify the impacts of global change in this area.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1314-2011	 	"[Jesus Perez-Luque, Antonio; Zamora, Regino; Perez-Perez, Ramon; Javier Bonet, Francisco] Univ Granada, Inst Interuniv Invest Sistema Tierra Andalucia CE, Lab Ecol iEcolab, Granada 18006, Spain. [Jesus Perez-Luque, Antonio; Zamora, Regino; Perez-Perez, Ramon; Javier Bonet, Francisco] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Grp Ecol Terr, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Patricia Sanchez-Rojas, Cristina] Agencia Medio Ambiente & Agua Andalucia, Consejeria Medio Ambiente & Ordenac Terr, Granada 18003, Spain.; Perez-Luque, AJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Inst Interuniv Invest Sistema Tierra Andalucia CE, Lab Ecol iEcolab, Ave Mediterraneo S-N, Granada 18006, Spain.; ajperez@ugr.es; cpsanchez@agenciamedioambienteyagua.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3897/phytokeys.46.9116	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jesus Perez-Luque,Antonio;Zamora,Regino;Javier Bonet,Francisco;Perez-Perez,Ramon"	Dataset of MIGRAME Project (Global Change, Altitudinal Range Shift and Colonization of Degraded Habitats in Mediterranean Mountains)	Phytokeys	 	2015	 	56	 	61	81	"Quercus pyrenaica forests;altitudinal migration;colonization of abandoned croplands;global change;Sierra Nevada (Spain);occurrence data;measurement data;QUERCUS-PYRENAICA FORESTS;CLIMATE-CHANGE;EVOLUTIONARY RESPONSES;IBERIAN PENINSULA;CHANGE IMPACTS;SCENARIOS;EUROPE;SPAIN;LAND;REGENERATION;Plant Sciences ER"	In this data paper, we describe the dataset of the Global Change, Altitudinal Range Shift and Colonization of Degraded Habitats in Mediterranean Mountains (MIGRAME) project, which aims to assess the capacity of altitudinal migration and colonization of marginal habitats by Quercus pyrenaica Willd. forests in Sierra Nevada (southern Spain) considering two global-change drivers: temperature increase and land-use changes. The dataset includes information of the forest structure (diameter size, tree height, and abundance) of the Quercus pyrenaica ecosystem in Sierra Nevada obtained from 199 transects sampled at the treeline ecotone, mature forest, and marginal habitats (abandoned cropland and pine plantations). A total of 3839 occurrence records were collected and 5751 measurements recorded. The dataset is included in the Sierra Nevada Global-Change Observatory (OBSNEV), a long-term research project designed to compile socio-ecological information on the major ecosystem types in order to identify the impacts of global change in this mountain range.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1314-2011	 	"[Jesus Perez-Luque, Antonio; Zamora, Regino; Javier Bonet, Francisco; Perez-Perez, Ramon] Univ Granada, Inst Interuniv Invest Sistema Tierra Andalucia CE, Granada 18006, Spain. [Jesus Perez-Luque, Antonio; Zamora, Regino; Javier Bonet, Francisco; Perez-Perez, Ramon] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Grp Ecol Terrestre, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Perez-Luque, AJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Inst Interuniv Invest Sistema Tierra Andalucia CE, Ave Mediterraneo S-N, Granada 18006, Spain.; ajperez@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3897/phytokeys.56.5482	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jimenez Olivencia,Yolanda;Porcel Rodriguez,Laura;Caballero Calvo,Andres"	A Half-Century of Landscape Evolution in the Sierra Nevada (Spain)	Boletin De La Asociacion De Geografos Espanoles	 	2015	 	 	68	205	+	"Mediterranean mountain;landscape change;protected areas;Sierra Nevada;LAND-COVER CHANGE;DYNAMICS;PYRENEES;Geography ER"	Changes in the ways of living in the Sierra Nevada region, its new functions as well as the effects of sectoral policies, such as forestry or protection measures, have led to profound changes in the planning model and the landscape. This paper, based on the analysis of the aerial photographs of 1956 and 2006, analyses landscape evolution in order to determine the nature and magnitude of the landscape transformations and to relate them to processes derived from the crisis in the traditional economy, the current demands for the mountain resources and new paradigms, such as multifunctionality of the rural world and the sustainable rural development.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0212-9426	 	"[Jimenez Olivencia, Yolanda; Porcel Rodriguez, Laura; Caballero Calvo, Andres] Univ Granada, Inst Desarrollo Reg, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Olivencia, YJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Inst Desarrollo Reg, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; yjimenez@ugr.es; lporcel@ugr.es; andrescaballero@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jimenez,Laura;Romero-Viana,Lidia;Maria Conde-Porcuna,Jose;Perez-Martinez,Carmen"	Sedimentary photosynthetic pigments as indicators of climate and watershed perturbations in an alpine lake in southern Spain	Limnetica	 	2015	DEC	34	2	439	453	"Paleolimnology;sedimentary pigments;HPLC;alpine lake;Sierra Nevada;HIGH-MOUNTAIN LAKES;DAPHNIA-PULICARIA;SURFACE SEDIMENTS;FOSSIL;PIGMENTS;ARCTIC LAKES;CYANOBACTERIA;TEMPERATURE;PHYTOPLANKTON;ECOSYSTEMS;CLADOCERA;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	A short core was collected in Rio Seco Lake, an alpine and oligotrophic lake located in the Sierra Nevada Mountains (in the southeast region of Spain) to determine the algal group changes over the past 200 years. In particular, it was analysed for fossil pigments and their derivatives and the geochemical (C/N ratio, grain-size analyses and isotopic dating) and climatic (temperature and rainfall values obtained from a long instrumental series) variables. The main pigments were carotenoids that indicate cyanobacteria (zeaxanthin, echinenone and myxoxanthophyll), diatoms and chrysophytes (fucoxanthin and diadinoxanthin) and green algae (lutein). The changes in pigment abundance over time were mainly explained by the temperature. Zeaxanthin showed a marked decrease from the 19th century to the present and is attributed to picoplanktonic cyanobacteria in Rio Seco Lake. This decrease may result from climate-driven factors affecting herbivorous grazing pressure and water residence time. The increasing human activity around the lake likely generated a high input of carotenoid-poor pigmented organic matter and led to the dilution of chlorophylls and labile carotenoids observed over recent decades.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0213-8409	 	"[Jimenez, Laura; Maria Conde-Porcuna, Jose; Perez-Martinez, Carmen] Univ Granada, Inst Water Res, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Jimenez, Laura; Maria Conde-Porcuna, Jose; Perez-Martinez, Carmen] Univ Granada, Fac Sci, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Jimenez, L (reprint author), Univ Granada, Inst Water Res, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; laurajl@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jimenez-Espejo,F. J.;Garcia-Alix,A.;Jimenez-Moreno,G.;Rodrigo-Gamiz,M.;Anderson,R. S.;Rodriguez-Tovar,F. J.;Martinez-Ruiz,F.;Giralt,Santiago;Delgado Huertas,A.;Pardo-Iguzquiza,E."	Saharan aeolian input and effective humidity variations over western Europe during the Holocene from a high altitude record	Chemical Geology	Chem.Geol.	2014	May-26	374	 	1	12	"Saharan dust;Holocene;South Iberia;Lacustrine record;HIGH-MOUNTAIN LAKES;NORTH-ATLANTIC OSCILLATION;LAST GLACIAL MAXIMUM;SOUTHWESTERN MEDITERRANEAN REGION;ABRUPT CLIMATE-CHANGE;AFRICAN DUST;SIERRA-NEVADA;SOUTHERN SPAIN;TRACE-ELEMENTS;TIME-SERIES;Geochemistry & Geophysics ER"	Saharan dust inputs affect present day ecosystems and biogeochemical cycles at a global scale. Previous Saharan dust input reconstructions have been mainly based on marine records from the African margin, nevertheless dust reaching western-central Europe is mainly transported by high-altitude atmospheric currents and requires high altitude records for its reconstruction. The organic and inorganic geochemical study of sediments from a southern Iberia alpine lacustrine record has provided an exceptional reconstruction of Saharan dust impact and regional climatic variations during the Holocene. After the last deglaciation, results indicate that Saharan dust reached Western Europe in a stepwise fashion from 7.0 to 6.0 cal. kyr BP and increased since then until present, promoting major geochemical changes in the lacustrine system. Effective humidity reconstruction indicates wetter conditions during the early Holocene and progressive aridification during middle-late Holocene time, boosting abrupt changes in the lacustrine system. Cyclostratigraphic analyses and transport mechanisms both point to solar irradiance and aridity as major triggering factors for dust supply over Western Europe during the Holocene. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0009-2541	 	"[Jimenez-Espejo, F. J.] Japan Agcy Marine Earth Sci & Technol, Yokosuka, Kanagawa 2370061, Japan. [Garcia-Alix, A.] Univ Granada, Dept Didact Ciencias Expt, Granada, Spain. [Jimenez-Moreno, G.; Rodriguez-Tovar, F. J.] Univ Granada, Dept Estratig & Paleontol, Granada, Spain. [Rodrigo-Gamiz, M.] NIOZ Royal Netherland Inst Sea Res, Dept Marine Organ Biogeochem, Texel, Netherlands. [Anderson, R. S.] Northern AZ Univ, Sch Earth Sci & Environm Sustainabil, Flagstaff, AZ USA. [Martinez-Ruiz, F.; Delgado Huertas, A.] Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra CSIC UGR, Granada, Spain. [Giralt, Santiago] Inst Earth Sci Jaume Almera CSIC, Barcelona 08028, Spain. [Pardo-Iguzquiza, E.] Inst Geol & Minero Espana IGME, Madrid, Spain.; Jimenez-Espejo, FJ (reprint author), Japan Agcy Marine Earth Sci & Technol, 2-15 Natsushimacho, Yokosuka, Kanagawa 2370061, Japan.; fjjspejo@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.chemgeo.2014.03.001	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jimenez-Moreno,Gonzalo;Alcicek,Huelya;Alcicek,M. Cihat;Ostende,Lars van den Hoek;Wesselingh,Frank P."	Vegetation and climate changes during the late Pliocene and early Pleistocene in SW Anatolia, Turkey	Quaternary Research	Quatern.Res.	2015	NOV	84	3	448	456	"Pollen analysis;Paleovegetation;Paleoclimate;Pliocene;Pleistocene;SW Anatolia;SOUTHWESTERN ANATOLIA;CAMELI BASIN;LATE MIOCENE;MEDITERRANEAN;VEGETATION;CONTINENTAL DEPOSITS;LACUSTRINE DEPOSITS;SOUTHERN SPAIN;SIERRA-NEVADA;WESTERN;PALYNOLOGY;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	Pollen analysis was done on lacustrine sedimentary sequences dated by micromammals as late Pliocene-early Pleistocene that outcrop in two Neogene graben basins from SW Turkey. This study shows vegetation changes from steppe-like to more forested environments, very similar to the cyclic oscillations related to late Pleistocene glacial-interglacial climate changes. Artemisia was abundant during cold-arid periods, indicating that this species was already widespread in this area during the latest Pliocene and the beginning of the Pleistocene. A review of pollen records from Anatolia agrees with this study, suggesting that the spreading of this arid species occurred during a major climatic change: the beginning of the first glaciations and probably a change in seasonality towards summer aridity. Artemisia temporarily disappeared from the region during warm-wet periods and thus we suggest that glacial-interglacial-type oscillations already occurred in the area during the late Pliocene-early Pleistocene. (C) 2015 University of Washington. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0033-5894	 	"[Jimenez-Moreno, Gonzalo] Univ Granadan, Dept Estratigraf & Paleontol, Granada 18002, Spain. [Alcicek, Huelya; Alcicek, M. Cihat] Pamukkale Univ, Dept Geol, TR-20070 Denizli, Turkey. [Ostende, Lars van den Hoek; Wesselingh, Frank P.] Nat Biodivers Ctr, NL-2300 RA Leiden, Netherlands.; Jimenez-Moreno, G (reprint author), Avda Fuentenueva S-N, Granada 18002, Spain.; gonzaloj@ugr.es; halcicek@pau.edu.tr; alcicek@pau.edu.tr; lars.vandenhoekostende@naturalis.nl; frank.wesselingh@naturalis.nl"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jimenez-Moreno,Gonzalo;Anderson,R. Scott"	Holocene vegetation and climate change recorded in alpine bog sediments from the Borreguiles de la Virgen, Sierra Nevada, southern Spain	Quaternary Research	Quatern.Res.	2012	JAN	77	1	44	53	"Pollen;Vegetation;Climate;Aridification;Mediterranean area;Holocene;NORTH-ATLANTIC OSCILLATION;MEDITERRANEAN VEGETATION;ENVIRONMENTAL-CHANGE;IBERIAN PENINSULA;OXYGEN ISOTOPES;LATE;QUATERNARY;MONTANE REGION;CAL. BP;WESTERN;HISTORY;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	High-resolution pollen and magnetic susceptibility (MS) analyses have been carried out on a sediment core taken from a high-elevation alpine bog area located in Sierra Nevada, southern Spain. The earliest part of the record, from 8200 to about 7000 cal yr BP, is characterized by the highest abundance of arboreal pollen and Pediastrum, indicating the warmest and wettest conditions in the area at that time. The pollen record shows a progressive aridification since 7000 cal yr BP that occurred in two steps, first shown by a decrease in Pinus, replaced by Poaceae from 7000 to 4600 cal yr BP and then by Cyperaceae, Artemisia and Amaranthaceae from 4600 to 1200 cal yr BP. Pediastrum also decreased progressively and totally disappeared at ca. 3000 yr ago. The progressive aridification is punctuated by periodically enhanced drought at ca. 6500, 5200 and 4000 cal yr BP that coincide in timing and duration with well-known dry events in the Mediterranean and other areas. Since 1200 cal yr BP, several changes are observed in the vegetation that probably indicate the high-impact of humans in the Sierra Nevada, with pasturing leading to nutrient enrichment and eutrophication of the bog, Pinus reforestation and Olea cultivation at lower elevations. (C) 2011 University of Washington. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0033-5894	 	"[Jimenez-Moreno, Gonzalo] Univ Granada, Dept Estratig & Paleontol, Granada 18002, Spain. [Anderson, R. Scott] No Arizona Univ, Sch Earth Sci & Environm Sustainabil, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA.; Jimenez-Moreno, G (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Estratig & Paleontol, Fuente Nueva S-N, Granada 18002, Spain.; gonzaloj@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.yqres.2011.09.006	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jimenez-Moreno,Gonzalo;Garcia-Alix,Antonio;Dolores Hernandez-Corbalan,Maria;Anderson,R. Scott;Delgado-Huertas,Antonio"	Vegetation, fire, climate and human disturbance history in the southwestern Mediterranean area during the late Holocene	Quaternary Research	Quatern.Res.	2013	MAR	79	2	110	122	"Climate;Fire history;Roman Humid Period;Late Holocene;Sierra Nevada;Southern Spain;IBERIAN PENINSULA;MILLENNIAL-SCALE;NORTH-ATLANTIC;SIERRA-NEVADA;ENVIRONMENTAL-CHANGE;ORGANIC-MATTER;MONTANE REGION;ORBITAL-SCALE;VARIABILITY;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	Detailed pollen, charcoal, isotope and magnetic susceptibility data from an alpine lake sediment core from Sierra Nevada, southern Spain record changes in vegetation, fire history and lake sedimentation since ca. 4100 cal yr BP. The proxies studied record an arid period from ca. 3800 to 3100 cal yr BP characterized by more xerophytic vegetation and lower lake levels. A humid period is recorded between ca. 3100 and 1850 cal yr BP, which occurred in two steps: (1) an increase in evergreen Quercus between 3100 and 2500 cal yr BP, indicating milder conditions than previously and (2) an increase in deciduous Quercus and higher lake levels, between ca. 2500 and 1850 cal yr BP, indicating a further increase in humidity and reduction in seasonal contrast. Humid maxima occurred during the Roman Humid Period, previously identified in other studies in the Mediterranean region. Intensified fire activity at this time could be related to an increase in fuel load and/or in human disturbance. An arid period subsequently occurred between 1850 and 650 cal yr BP, though a decrease in Quercus and an increase in xerophytes. The alternation of persistent North Atlantic Oscillation modes probably played an important role in controlling these humid-arid cycles. (c) 2012 University of Washington. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0033-5894	 	"[Jimenez-Moreno, Gonzalo; Dolores Hernandez-Corbalan, Maria] Univ Granada, Dept Estratig & Paleontol, Granada, Spain. [Garcia-Alix, Antonio; Delgado-Huertas, Antonio] Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra CSCI UGR, Granada, Spain. [Anderson, R. Scott] No Arizona Univ, Sch Earth Sci & Environm Sustainabil, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA.; Jimenez-Moreno, G (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Estratig & Paleontol, Granada, Spain.; gonzaloj@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.yqres.2012.11.008	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jimenez-Peralvarez,J. D.;Irigaray,C.;El Hamdouni,R.;Chacon,J."	Landslide-susceptibility mapping in a semi-arid mountain environment: an example from the southern slopes of Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain)	Bulletin of Engineering Geology and the Environment	Bull.Eng.Geol.Env.	2011	MAY	70	2	265	277	"Landslide susceptibility;Bivariate statistical analysis;Semi-arid mountain environment;Sierra Nevada;BETIC-CORDILLERA;GIS;HAZARD;MAPS;VALIDATION;MODELS;BASIN;Engineering;Geology ER"	Landslide susceptibility is analysed in a semi-arid mountain environment, on the southern slope of Sierra Nevada. In a study area of 460 km 2, 252 landslides were inventoried, affecting 3.2% of the total surface area. These landslides were mainly slides and flows on phyllite, schist and marble units in the Inner Zone of the Betic Cordillera. The most relevant determining factors proved to be elevation, slope angle, slope aspect and lithology. Triggering factors include mainly short-term landslide generation during heavy rainfall, as well as sporadic earthquakes or long-term activation by land-use changes, river over-excavation, etc. Although landslide susceptibility, assessed by the GIS matrix method, is predominantly low, some 15% of the study area shows moderate to very high susceptibility, coinciding with the sites of public works in the region. The map drawn was validated by the degree-of-fit method, registering values above 83.2% for the zones of high and very high susceptibility.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1435-9529	 	"[Jimenez-Peralvarez, J. D.; Irigaray, C.; El Hamdouni, R.; Chacon, J.] Univ Granada, ETSICCP, Dept Civil Engn, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Jimenez-Peralvarez, JD (reprint author), Univ Granada, ETSICCP, Dept Civil Engn, Campus Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jorgejp@ugr.es; clemente@ugr.es; rachidej@ugr.es; jchacon@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10064-010-0332-9	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jose Bullejos,Francisco;Carrillo,Presentacion;Gorokhova,Elena;Manuel Medina-Sanchez,Juan;Villar-Argaiz,Manuel"	Nucleic Acid Content in Crustacean Zooplankton: Bridging Metabolic and Stoichiometric Predictions	Plos One	 	2014	Jan-21	9	1	e86493	e86493	"HIGH-MOUNTAIN LAKE;FRESH-WATER ZOOPLANKTON;GROWTH-RATE;LIFE-HISTORY;DRY-WEIGHT;ULTRAVIOLET-RADIATION;ELEMENTAL COMPOSITION;CLIMATE-CHANGE;RNA;PHOSPHORUS;Science & Technology - Other Topics ER"	Metabolic and stoichiometric theories of ecology have provided broad complementary principles to understand ecosystem processes across different levels of biological organization. We tested several of their cornerstone hypotheses by measuring the nucleic acid (NA) and phosphorus (P) content of crustacean zooplankton species in 22 high mountain lakes (Sierra Nevada and the Pyrenees mountains, Spain). The P-allocation hypothesis (PAH) proposes that the genome size is smaller in cladocerans than in copepods as a result of selection for fast growth towards P-allocation from DNA to RNA under P limitation. Consistent with the PAH, the RNA: DNA ratio was > 8-fold higher in cladocerans than in copepods, although 'fast-growth' cladocerans did not always exhibit higher RNA and lower DNA contents in comparison to 'slow-growth' copepods. We also showed strong associations among growth rate, RNA, and total P content supporting the growth rate hypothesis, which predicts that fast-growing organisms have high P content because of the preferential allocation to P-rich ribosomal RNA. In addition, we found that ontogenetic variability in NA content of the copepod Mixodiaptomus laciniatus (intra-and interstage variability) was comparable to the interspecific variability across other zooplankton species. Further, according to the metabolic theory of ecology, temperature should enhance growth rate and hence RNA demands. RNA content in zooplankton was correlated with temperature, but the relationships were nutrient-dependent, with a positive correlation in nutrient-rich ecosystems and a negative one in those with scarce nutrients. Overall our results illustrate the mechanistic connections among organismal NA content, growth rate, nutrients and temperature, contributing to the conceptual unification of metabolic and stoichiometric theories.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1932-6203	 	"[Jose Bullejos, Francisco; Manuel Medina-Sanchez, Juan; Villar-Argaiz, Manuel] Univ Granada, Fac Sci, Dept Ecol, Granada, Spain. [Carrillo, Presentacion] Univ Granada, Water Res Inst, Granada, Spain. [Gorokhova, Elena] Stockholm Univ, Dept Appl Environm Sci, S-10691 Stockholm, Sweden.; Bullejos, FJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Sci, Dept Ecol, Granada, Spain.; fjbc@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1371/journal.pone.0086493	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jose Bullejos,Francisco;Carrillo,Presentacion;Villar-Argaiz,Manuel;Manuel Medina-Sanchez,Juan"	Roles of phosphorus and ultraviolet radiation in the strength of phytoplankton-zooplankton coupling in a Mediterranean high mountain lake	Limnology and Oceanography	Limnol.Oceanogr.	2010	NOV	55	6	2549	2562	"PELAGIC FOOD WEBS;CLIMATE-CHANGE;UV-RADIATION;ELEMENTAL COMPOSITION;NUTRIENT ENRICHMENT;SEASONAL SUCCESSION;SOLAR-RADIATION;ALGAL;CONTROL;GROWTH-RATE;DAPHNIA;Marine & Freshwater Biology;Oceanography ER"	"Ultraviolet solar radiation (UVR) and atmospheric nutrient inputs associated with aerosols are major worldwide stressors that simultaneously affect species and the interaction among them. A 2 x 5 field experimental design was used to determine how variations in light regimes (presence and absence of UVR [+UVR and -UVR]) and nutrients might influence the strength of phytoplankton-zooplankton coupling (PZC). We observed unimodal curves for zooplankton biomass in response to increased food supply from nutrient enrichment. These results challenge the ""more is better (or at least never worse)"" concept, since high food levels resulted in weakened PZC. The effect of UVR on zooplankton was nutrient dependent, significantly reducing zooplankton abundance at intermediate phosphorus (P) supplied levels but not at the two ends of the trophic gradient generated (control and highest P level). Neither food quantity nor food quality explained observed differences in zooplankton biomass between light treatments, suggesting a deleterious direct effect of UVR on zooplankton at intermediate food ranges, resulting in a weakening of PZC. The location of this lake in the Mediterranean region has shown an increasing intensity and frequency of aerosol depositions over the past three decades (1973-2003), resulting in higher phytoplankton biomass. A combination of these higher atmospheric dust depositions with the high UVR levels characteristic of high mountain lakes might underlie the interannual decoupling between phytoplankton and zooplankton dynamics observed in these oligotrophic ecosystems."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0024-3590	 	"[Jose Bullejos, Francisco; Carrillo, Presentacion; Villar-Argaiz, Manuel; Manuel Medina-Sanchez, Juan] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Granada, Spain. [Carrillo, Presentacion] Univ Granada, Inst Agua, Granada, Spain.; Bullejos, FJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Granada, Spain.; fjbc@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.4319/lo.2010.55.6.2549	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Book, Whole	"Jose Polo,Maria;Herrero,Javier;Aguilar,Cristina;Millares,Agustin;Monino,Antonio;Nieto,Sergio;Losada,Miguel A."	WiMMed, a distributed physically-based watershed model (I): Description and validation	 	 	2010	 	 	 	228	 	"WiMMed;watershed;distributed model;hydrological analysis;Engineering;Mathematics;Water Resources ER"	WiMMed (Water Integrated Management for Mediterranean Watersheds) is a physically based and distributed model at watershed scale developed for integrated management of water resources. This work presents the first user version which includes all processes that determine water flows along the watershed, carefully considering characteristic aspects of Mediterranean watersheds with influence on the spatial and temporal variability, as well as processes where topography may substantially affect the results. WiMMed focuses on the distributed modelling at the cell scale of the digital elevation model and the resolution at different temporal scales in the same calculation sequence in order to better reproduce physical simulated processes. To this purpose, the model was developed and validated in the Guadalfeo river watershed (Granada, Southern Spain), where the topographic gradient between the high mountains of Sierra Nevada and the coast in less than 70 km distance has led to a wide heterogeneity of climate, soil, meteorological conditions (snow occurrence every year), vegetation, water sources, soil uses, and water demand. The topographic algorithms pose a great potential for the study of ungauged watersheds by means of computer techniques from a digital elevation model, and constitute a useful tool for water planning and management that can be technically applied in any other watershed.	PT: B	 	LopezJimenez, PA FuertesMiquel, VS IglesiasRey, PL LopezPatino, G MartinezSolano, FJ PalauSalvador,G.	 	 	 	 				 	978-0-415-56697-1	 	"[Jose Polo, Maria; Aguilar, Cristina] Univ Cordoba, Grp Hidrol & Hidraul Agr, Cordoba, Spain.; Polo, MJ (reprint author), Univ Cordoba, Grp Hidrol & Hidraul Agr, Cordoba, Spain."	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Julio,Luis F.;Burillo,Jesus;Gimenez,Cristina;Cabrera,Raimundo;Diaz,Carmen E.;Sanz,Jesus;Gonzalez-Coloma,Azucena"	Chemical and biocidal characterization of two cultivated Artemisia absinthium populations with different domestication levels	Industrial Crops and Products	 	2015	Dec-15	76	 	787	792	"Artemisia absinthium;Domestication;Hydrodistillation;Vapor pressure;Antifungal;cis-Chrysanthenol;ESSENTIAL OILS;ANTIFUNGAL ACTIVITY;MAJOR COMPONENTS;ANTIFEEDANT;EXTRACTION;ASTERACEAE;Agriculture ER"	The objective of this study was the characterization and valorization of the essential oil from a domesticated Artemisia absinthium population (Teruel, Spain), and its comparison with another one (Sierra Nevada, Spain) undergoing the domestication process. These populations are being experimentally cultivated in the same field since 2008. We studied their biomass and essential oil production (Clevenger hydrodistillation, HD and semi-industrial vapor-pressure, VP). The domesticated population showed lower chemical variation and higher biomass and essential oil yields, allowing for the registration of a new plant variety. The observed variations in oil composition (HD, VP) between the two populations were mostly quantitative. The oils were characterized by the presence of cis-epoxyocimene, ()-cis-chrysanthenol, chrysanthenyl acetate, linalool and trans-caryophyllene. The insect antifeedant (Leptinotarsa decemlineata, Spodoptera littoralis, Myzus persicae and Rhopalosiphum padi) and antifungal (Fusarium spp. and Botrytis cinerea) effects of their oils were also tested. All VP extracts showed strong antifungal effects and the active antifungal compounds have been identified. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0926-6690	 	"[Julio, Luis F.; Gonzalez-Coloma, Azucena] CSIC, Inst Ciencias Agr, E-28006 Madrid, Spain. [Burillo, Jesus] CITA Gobierno Aragon, Zaragoza 50059, Spain. [Gimenez, Cristina; Cabrera, Raimundo] Univ La Laguna, Fac Biol, UDI Fitopatol, E-38206 Tenerife, Spain. [Diaz, Carmen E.] CSIC, Inst Prod Nat & Agrobiol, Tenerife 38206, Spain. [Sanz, Jesus] CSIC, Inst Quim Organ Gen, E-28006 Madrid, Spain.; Gonzalez-Coloma, A (reprint author), CSIC, Inst Ciencias Agr, Serrano 115-Dpdo, E-28006 Madrid, Spain.; azu@ica.csic.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.indcrop.2015.07.041	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Kefauver,Shawn C.;Penuelas,Josep;Ustin,Susan"	Using topographic and remotely sensed variables to assess ozone injury to conifers in the Sierra Nevada (USA) and Catalonia (Spain)	Remote Sensing of Environment	Remote Sens.Environ.	2013	DEC	139	 	138	148	"Pinus ponderosa;Pinus jeffreyi;Pinus uncinata;Ozone Injury Index;Ozone;California;Catalonia;Mediterranean;Air pollution;Imaging spectroscopy;Topography;GIS;SAN-BERNARDINO MOUNTAINS;TROPOSPHERIC OZONE;PONDEROSA PINE;STOMATAL;CONDUCTANCE;AIR-POLLUTION;PLANT-LEAVES;REFLECTANCE SPECTROSCOPY;QUANTITATIVE-ANALYSIS;SPECTRAL REFLECTANCE;CLIMATE-CHANGE;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Remote Sensing;Imaging Science & Photographic Technology ER"	The capacity to remotely identify impacts of ozone on conifers in California, USA and Catalonia, Spain was investigated using remote sensing and terrain-driven GIS analyses related to plant water relations and ozone uptake. The Ozone Injury Index (OII) field metric applied to Pinus ponderosa and Pinus jeffreyi in the USA and adapted to Pinus uncinata in Spain included visible chlorotic mottling, needle retention, needle length, and crown depth. Species classifications of AVIRIS and CASI hyperspectral imagery all approached 80% overall accuracy for the target bioindicator species. Remote sensing vegetation indices correlated best with longer-wavelength SWIR indices from the AVIRIS data in California, with the exception of the Photosynthetic Reflectance Index (PRI) correlation with the 011 Visual Component (OIIVI), which was also the highest direct correlation in Catalonia. In Catalonia, the OIIVI alone and its subparts correlated better with the CASI data than with the full OIL namely the PRI (R-2 = 0.28, p = 0.0044 for OIIVI-amount and R-2 = 0.33 and p = 0.0016 for OIIVI-severity). Stepwise regression models of ozone injury developed using remote sensing indices combined with terrain-derived GIS variables were significant for OII in California (R-2 = 0.59, p < 0.0001) and in Catalonia (R-2 = 0.68, p < 0.0001 for OIIVI). Multiple regression models of ozone injury including a three year average of O-3 exposure were significant both with imaging spectroscopy indices alone (R-2 = 0.56, p < 0.0001) and with topographic variables added (R-2 = 0.77, p < 0.0001) in Catalonia. Applying the multivariate models to image classifications could provide useful maps useful for ozone impact monitoring but requires further validation before being considered operational. (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0034-4257	 	"[Kefauver, Shawn C.; Ustin, Susan] Univ Calif Davis, Ctr Spatial Technol & Remote Sensing, Davis, CA 95616 USA. [Kefauver, Shawn C.; Ustin, Susan] Univ Calif Davis, Dept LAWR, Davis, CA 95616 USA. [Kefauver, Shawn C.; Penuelas, Josep] CREAF CEAB CSIC UAB, CSIC, Global Ecol Unit, Barcelona 08193, Catalonia, Spain. [Kefauver, Shawn C.; Penuelas, Josep] CREAF, Barcelona 08193, Catalonia, Spain.; Kefauver, SC (reprint author), Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Unitat Ecol Global CREAF CEAB CSIC CREAF Ctr Ecol, Edifici C, Bellaterra 08193, Spain.; sckefauver@ucdavis.edu; josep.penuelas@uab.cat; slustin@ucdavis.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.rse.2013.07.037	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Kefauver,Shawn C.;Penuelas,Josep;Ustin,Susan L."	Improving assessments of tropospheric ozone injury to Mediterranean montane conifer forests in California (USA) and Catalonia (Spain) with GIS models related to plant water relations	Atmospheric Environment	Atmos.Environ.	2012	DEC	62	 	41	49	"Pinus ponderosa;Pinus jeffreyi;Pinus uncinata;Ozone;GIS;Ozone Injury Index;Bioindicator;California;Catalonia;Mediterranean;Air pollution;SAN-BERNARDINO MOUNTAINS;PONDEROSA PINE;AIR-POLLUTION;STOMATAL;CONDUCTANCE;NATIONAL-PARK;SURFACE OZONE;EXPOSURE;VEGETATION;DROUGHT;GROWTH;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences ER"	The impacts of tropospheric ozone on conifer health in the Sierra Nevada of California, USA, and the Pyrenees of Catalonia, Spain, were measured using field assessments and GIS variables of landscape gradients related to plant water relations, stomatal conductance and hence to ozone uptake. Measurements related to ozone injury included visible chlorotic mottling, needle retention, needle length, and crown depth, which together compose the Ozone Injury Index (OII). The OII values observed in Catalonia were similar to those in California, but OII alone correlated poorly to ambient ozone in all sites. Combining ambient ozone with GIS variables related to landscape variability of plant hydrological status, derived from stepwise regressions, produced models with R-2 = 0.35, p = 0.016 in Catalonia, R-2 = 0.36, p < 0.001 in Yosemite and R-2 = 0.33, p = 0.007 in Sequoia/Kings Canyon National Parks in California. Individual OII components in Catalonia were modeled with improved success compared to the original full OII, in particular visible chlorotic mottling (R-2 = 0.60, p < 0.001). The results show that ozone is negatively impacting forest health in California and Catalonia and also that modeling ozone injury improves by including GIS variables related to plant water relations. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1352-2310	 	"[Kefauver, Shawn C.; Ustin, Susan L.] Univ Calif Davis, Ctr Spatial Technol & Remote Sensing, Davis, CA 95616 USA. [Kefauver, Shawn C.; Penuelas, Josep] CREAF, Cerdanyola Del Valles 08193, Catalonia, Spain. [Kefauver, Shawn C.; Penuelas, Josep] CREAF CEAB UAB, CSIC, Global Ecol Unit, Cerdanyola Del Valles 08913, Catalonia, Spain.; Kefauver, SC (reprint author), Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Global Ecol Unit, CREAF CEAB CSIC, Bellaterra 08193, Spain.; sckefauver@ucdavis.edu; josep.penuelas@uab.es; slustin@ucdavis.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.atmosenv.2012.08.013	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Kefauver,Shawn C.;Penuelas,Josep;Ustin,Susan L."	Applications of Hyperspectral Remote Sensing and Gis for Assessing Forest Health and Air Pollution	2012 Ieee International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium (Igarss)	 	2012	 	 	 	3379	3382	"hyperspectral remote sensing;air pollution;ozone;forest health;GIS;Engineering;Geology;Remote Sensing ER"	The objective of this project is the assessment of air pollution impacts on conifer health in the Sierra Nevada of California, USA and the Pyrenees of Catalonia, Spain using remote sensing indices of forest health in conjunction with GIS analyses of the variability various stressors across natural landscape gradients. The Ozone Injury Index (OII) field metric applied to P. ponderosa and P. jeffreyi in the USA and adapted to P. uncinata in Spain included chlorotic mottling, needle retention, needle length, and crown depth. Species-level classifications of AVIRIS and CASI hyperspectral imagery were all near 80% overall accuracy for the target bioindicator species. Combining remote sensing indices with GIS variables related to microsite ozone uptake variability produced improved regressions for Catalonia (R-2 = 0.68, p < 0.0001) and California (R-2 = 0.56, p < 0.0001). Multiple regression models for the ozone injury visual component (VI) alone performed much better than the full OII in Catalonia combining the remote sensing index PRI and a three year average of ambient ozone (R-2 = 0.56, p < 0.0001) and better still when including GIS variables (R-2 = 0.77, p < 0.0001).	PT: S	 		IEEE International Symposium on Geoscience and Remote Sensing IGARSS	 	 	 				 	"2153-6996; 978-1-4673-1159-5"	 	"[Kefauver, Shawn C.; Ustin, Susan L.] Univ Calif Davis, Ctr Spatial Technol & Remote Sensing, Davis, CA 95616 USA.; Kefauver, SC (reprint author), Univ Calif Davis, Ctr Spatial Technol & Remote Sensing, Davis, CA 95616 USA."	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1109/IGARSS.2012.6350696	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Knapp,Eric E.	Long-term dead wood changes in a Sierra Nevada mixed conifer forest: Habitat and fire hazard implications	Forest Ecology and Management	For.Ecol.Manage.	2015	Mar-01	339	 	87	95	"Coarse woody debris;Fire hazard;Mixed conifer;Reference conditions;Snag;Tree mortality;LODGEPOLE PINE FORESTS;CAVITY-NESTING BIRDS;RED-BACKED VOLES;OLD-GROWTH;PRESCRIBED FIRE;FUELS MANAGEMENT;NORTHERN ARIZONA;TREE;MORTALITY;WESTERN OREGON;SITE SELECTION;Forestry ER"	Dead trees play an important role in forests, with snags and coarse woody debris (CWD) used by many bird and mammal species for nesting, resting, or foraging. However, too much dead wood can also contribute to extreme fire behavior. This tension between dead wood as habitat and dead wood as fuel has raised questions about appropriate quantities in fire-dependent forested ecosystems. Three plots installed in mixed conifer forest of the central Sierra Nevada in 1929 illustrate how amounts and sizes of dead wood have changed through time as a result of logging and fire exclusion. Diameter of snags was measured and CWD was mapped in the old-growth condition, prior to logging. Snags were re-measured in 2007 or 2008, and CWD was re-mapped in 20112. Snag density increased from 15.2 ha(-1) in 1929 to 140.0 ha(-1) in 2007/2008. However, average snag size declined, with 72% and 22% of snags classified as medium or large in 1929 and 2007/2008, respectively. Mechanisms of tree mortality also appear to have changed with greater mortality in smaller size classes, possibly as a result of higher live tree density. CWD volume, mass, and cover did not differ significantly between 1929 and 2012, with increased tree mortality and lack of periodic consumption by fire apparently compensating for the loss of inputs of large wood due to past logging. However, number of logs increased from 28 ha-1 to 76 ha(-1) and average size declined substantially. Because larger-sized dead wood is preferred by many wildlife species, the current condition of more, smaller, and more decayed woody pieces may have a lower ratio of habitat value relative to potential fire hazard than it once did. Size, density, and stage of decomposition are therefore potentially better metrics for managing dead wood than mass and/or volume alone. To restore dead wood to conditions more like those found historically will require growing larger trees and reducing the inputs of dead wood from small and intermediate-sized trees. Fire, which preferentially consumes smaller and more rotten wood, would also help shift the balance to larger and less decayed pieces. Published by Elsevier B.V.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0378-1127	 	"US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Res Stn, Redding, CA 96002 USA.; Knapp, EE (reprint author), US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Res Stn, 3644 Avtech Pkwy, Redding, CA 96002 USA.; eknapp@fs.fed.us"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.foreco.2014.12.008	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Kohfahl,Claus;Sprenger,Christoph;Benavente Herrera,Jose;Meyer,Hanno;Fernandez Chacon,Franzisca;Pekdeger,Asaf"	Recharge sources and hydrogeochemical evolution of groundwater in semiarid and karstic environments: A field study in the Granada Basin (Southern Spain)	Applied Geochemistry	Appl.Geochem.	2008	APR	23	4	846	862	"PRECIPITATION;ISOTOPE;HYDROLOGY;WATERS;O-18;Geochemistry & Geophysics ER"	The objective of this study is to refine the understanding of recharge processes in watersheds representative for karstic semiarid areas by means of stable isotope analysis and hydrogeochemistry. The study focuses on the Granada aquifer system which is located in an intramontane basin bounded by high mountain ranges providing elevation differences of almost 2900 m. These altitude gradients lead to important temperature and precipitation gradients and provide excellent conditions for the application of stable isotopes of water whose composition depends mainly on temperature. Samples of rain, snow, surface water and groundwater were collected at 154 locations for stable isotope studies (delta O-18, D) and, in the case of ground- and surface waters, also for major and minor ion analysis. Thirty-seven springs were sampled between 2 and 5 times from October 2004 to March 2005 along an altitudinal gradient from 552 masl in the Granada basin to 2156 masl in Sierra Nevada. Nine groundwater samples were taken from the discharge of operating wells in the Granada basin which are all located between 540 and 728 masl. The two main rivers were monitored every 2-3 weeks at three different altitudes. Rainfall being scarce during the sampling period, precipitation could only be sampled during four rainfall events. Calculated recharge altitudes of springs showed that source areas of mainly snowmelt recharge are generally located between 1600 and 2000 masl. The isotope compositions of spring water indicate water sources from the western Mediterranean as well as from the Atlantic without indicating a seasonal trend. The isotope pattern of the Quaternary aquifer reflects the spatial separation of different sources of recharge which occur mainly by bankfiltration of the main rivers. Isotopic signatures in the southeastern part of the aquifer indicate a considerable recharge contribution by subsurface flow discharged from the adjacent carbonate aquifer. No evaporation effects due to agricultural irrigation were detected. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0883-2927	 	"[Kohfahl, Claus; Sprenger, Christoph; Pekdeger, Asaf] Free Univ Berlin, Inst Geol Sci, D-12249 Berlin, Germany. [Benavente Herrera, Jose] Univ Granada, Inst Agua, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Meyer, Hanno] Alfred Wegener Inst Polar & Marine Res, Isotope Lab, Res Unit Potsdam, D-14473 Potsdam, Germany. [Fernandez Chacon, Franzisca] Inst Geol & Minero Espana, Dpto Hidrogeol & Aguas Subterraneas, Oficina Proyectos, Granada 18006, Spain.; Kohfahl, C (reprint author), Free Univ Berlin, Inst Geol Sci, Malteserstr 74-100, D-12249 Berlin, Germany.; kohfahl@zedat.fu-berlin.de"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.apgeochem.2007.09.009	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Kottmann,Sina Lucia	Mocking and Miming the 'Moor': Staging of the 'Self' and 'Other' on Spain's Borders with Morocco	Journal of Mediterranean Studies	 	2011	 	20	1	107	136	History ER	The age-old melange of Muslim and Christian cultures has left manifold visible and invisible traces on the landscapes and in the collective memory of modern-day Spain. Since the 1980s, immigration from the southern shores of the Mediterranean has increased significantly and Spain began to attract attention as an important site for junctions and fractures between Europe and the Maghreb. In the face of current political tensions, debates about the 'self' and the cultural, religious and ethnic 'other' on Europe's periphery have become remarkably delicate. Not only do resentments come to the fore, but there is appropriation of the Moorish legacy of Al-Andalus as well. This article presents two popular performances of historic Muslim-Christian 'clashes' in the Andalusian province of Granada: the Dia de la Toma in the city of Granada and a Festival of Moors and Christians in a small village south of the Sierra Nevada. The selected examples reveal the complexity of identity formation in southern Spain's multicultural reality, the ambivalence in the encounter with its past and present 'Moors' and the politicisation of the public sphere in the course of current regional and global upheavals.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1016-3476	 	"Univ Halle Wittenberg, Halle, Germany.; Kottmann, SL (reprint author), Univ Halle Wittenberg, Halle, Germany."	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Kropf,Matthias;Comes,Hans P.;Kadereit,Joachim W."	Causes of the genetic architecture of south-west European high mountain disjuncts	Plant Ecology & Diversity	 	2008	 	1	2	217	228	Plant Sciences ER	Background: Postglacial climatic warming in south-western Europe and the retreat of cold-adapted species into higher elevations, starting in the Sierra Nevada and proceeding northwards to the Pyrenees and Alps, should have resulted in a pattern of 'successive vicariance'. Alternatively, long-distance dispersal might explain the extant distribution pattern of mountain species in this region. Aims: Here, we report an investigation of two alpine plants, Saxifraga oppositifolia and S. stellaris, which co-occur in the Sierra Nevada, the Pyrenees, and the south-western Alps/Massif Central. Our aim was to distinguish between (successive) vicariance and long-distance dispersal as alternative explanations for their present-day geographical distribution across these high mountain ranges. The patterns found in these two species were compared to those of four other mountain species previously studied by us. Methods: Samples of 378 individuals from 21 populations were surveyed for amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) variation. Results: We found that vicariance best explains the phylogeographic pattern of S. oppositifolia, while in S. stellaris, Sierra Nevada samples fell within the group of non-monophyletic Pyrenean populations. Together with genetic diversity evidence, this latter pattern is hypothesised to reflect incomplete lineage sorting following range fragmentation rather than long-distance dispersal from the Pyrenees to the Sierra Nevada. Additionally, in S. stellaris, a distinct genetic cluster from the Massif Central was observed. Levels of among-region and among-population differentiation were higher in S. stellaris than in S. oppositifolia. This may be taken as evidence of a more strongly disrupted glacial distribution of the former species, and also accords with its preference for more specialised and patchily distributed habitats when compared to those of the 'pioneering' S. oppositifolia. Conclusions: In conjunction with our previous investigation, we conclude that vicariance is the predominant, but not sole process shaping the genetic architecture of south-west European high mountain disjuncts. Furthermore, 'successive vicariance' was only observed in three previously studied species but not in the two Saxifrages analysed here, possibly due to the persistence of past patterns of population substructuring.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1755-0874	 	"Univ Nat Resources & Appl Life Sci, Dept Integrat Biol, Inst Bot, Vienna, Austria. [Comes, Hans P.] Salzburg Univ, Fachbereich Organismische Biol, A-5020 Salzburg, Austria. [Kadereit, Joachim W.] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Inst Spezielle Botan Botanisch Garten, D-6500 Mainz, Germany.; Kropf, M (reprint author), Univ Nat Resources & Appl Life Sci, Dept Integrat Biol, Inst Bot, Vienna, Austria.; matthias.kropf@boku.ac.at"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1080/17550870802331938	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Kropf,Matthias;Comes,Hans Peter;Kadereit,Joachim W."	An AFLP clock for the absolute dating of shallow-time evolutionary history based on the intraspecific divergence of southwestern European alpine plant species	Molecular ecology	Mol.Ecol.	2009	FEB	18	4	697	708	"AFLPs;European Alpine System;evolutionary divergence;Gentiana alpina;Kernera saxatilis;molecular fingerprint clock;Quaternary biogeography;Silene rupestris;successive vicariance;RADIOCARBON CALIBRATION;POPULATION-GENETICS;GENOTYPING ERRORS;MOLECULAR CLOCK;DNA MARKERS;DISTANCE;NUCLEAR;RATES;SUBSTITUTION;PLEISTOCENE;Biochemistry & Molecular Biology;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Evolutionary Biology ER"	"The dating of recent events in the history of organisms needs divergence rates based on molecular fingerprint markers. Here, we used amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs) of three distantly related alpine plant species co-occurring in the Spanish Sierra Nevada, the Pyrenees and the southwestern Alps/Massif Central to establish divergence rates. Within each of these species (Gentiana alpina, Kernera saxatilis and Silene rupestris), we found that the degree of AFLP divergence (D(N72)) between mountain phylogroups was significantly correlated with their time of divergence (as inferred from palaeoclimatic/palynological data), indicating constant AFLP divergence rates. As these rates did not differ significantly among species, a regression analysis based on the pooled data was utilized to generate a general AFLP rate. The application of this latter rate to AFLP data from other herbaceous plant species (Minuartia biflora: Schonswetter et al. 2006; Nigella degenii: Comes et al. 2008) resulted in a plausible timing of the recolonization of the Svalbard Islands and the separation of populations from the Alps and Scandinavia (Minuartia), and of island population separation in the Aegean Archipelago (Nigella). Furthermore, the AFLP mutation rate obtained in our study is of the same magnitude as AFLP mutation rates published previously. The temporal limits of our AFLP rate, which is based on intraspecific vicariance events at shallow (i.e. late glacial/Early Holocene) time scales, remains to be tested."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0962-1083	 	"[Kropf, Matthias] Univ Nat Resources & Appl Life Sci, Dept Integrat Biol & Biodivers Res, Inst Bot, A-1180 Vienna, Austria. [Comes, Hans Peter] Paris Lodron Univ Salzburg, Fachbereich Organism Biol, A-5020 Salzburg, Austria. [Kadereit, Joachim W.] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Inst Spezielle Bot & Bot Garten, D-55099 Mainz, Germany.; Kropf, M (reprint author), Univ Nat Resources & Appl Life Sci, Dept Integrat Biol & Biodivers Res, Inst Bot, A-1180 Vienna, Austria.; matthias.kropf@boku.ac.at"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2008.04053.x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Lara,Francisco;Medina,Rafael;Garilleti,Ricardo;Mazimpaka,Vicente"	On the presence of Orthotrichum patens Bruch & Brid. in the Iberian Peninsula	Cryptogamie Bryologie	 	2008	APR	29	2	157	164	"mosses;Spain;Romania;Turkey;European rare species;Orthotrichum alpestre;Orthotrichum handiense;Orthotrichum scanicum;Orthotrichum putchellum;Orthotrichum stellatum;Orthotrichum stramineum;RED-LIST;Plant Sciences ER"	Orthotrichum patens Bruch & Brid., considered to be a rare moss in the Iberian Peninsula, is reported from two localities in Northern Spain (Asturias and Navarra). After revision of the herbarium material corresponding to previous records of this species in the Iberian Peninsula, we conclude that most of them (Asturias, Alava, Leon and La Rioja provinces) are erroneous. However, two early records (Sierra Nevada and Sierra de Ancares) remain uncertain since the corresponding herbarium material has not been found. We also provide details of two new localities of Orthotrichum patens in Romania and two in Turkey, where the species has been poorly recorded. Finally, we discuss the characters that allow the discrimination of Orthotrichum patens from related species, especially from O. stramineum Hornsch., the moss that has most often been confused with it in Spain.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1290-0796	 	"[Lara, Francisco; Medina, Rafael] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Fac Ciencias, Dept Biol Bot, E-28049 Madrid, Spain. [Garilleti, Ricardo] Univ Valencia, Fac Farm, Dept Bot, E-46010 Valencia, Spain.; Lara, F (reprint author), Univ Autonoma Madrid, Fac Ciencias, Dept Biol Bot, C Darwin 2, E-28049 Madrid, Spain.; francisco.lara@uam.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Lee,Wei-Liang;Liou,K. N."	Effect of absorbing aerosols on snow albedo reduction in the Sierra Nevada	Atmospheric Environment	Atmos.Environ.	2012	AUG	55	 	425	430	"Snow albedo;Aerosol deposition;Satellite remote sensing;Sierra Nevada;WESTERN UNITED-STATES;BLACK CARBON;ASIAN AEROSOLS;VALIDATION;SCATTERING;ALGORITHM;EVOLUTION;IMPACTS;MODEL;MASS;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences ER"	This paper investigates snow albedo changes in the Sierra Nevada Mountain area associated with potential deposition of absorbing aerosols in spring by using the snow albedo, aerosol optical depth, land surface temperature, and other relevant parameters available from the Moderate-Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) onboard the NASA Terra satellite during 2000-2009. Satellite pixels with 100% snow cover have been selected to derive the monthly mean snow albedo value, along with aerosol optical depth, surface temperature, and days after snowfall in March and April to perform multiple regression analysis. We show that aerosol optical depth, which generally includes dust and black carbon over the Sierra Nevada as a result of the transpacific transport from East Asia and local sources, represents a significant parameter affecting snow albedo variation, second only to the land surface temperature change. The regression analysis illustrates that a one standard deviation increase in land surface temperature (2.2 K) and aerosol optical depth (0.044) can lead to decreases in snow albedo by 0.038 and 0.026, respectively. This study also shows that approximately 26% of snow albedo reduction from March to April over the Sierra Nevada is caused by an increase in aerosol optical depth, which has a profound impact on available water resources in California. However, the results show that there are no significant trends for snow albedo, surface temperature, and aerosol optical depth of snow-covered areas over the Sierra Nevada Mountain area in this 10-year period. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1352-2310	 	"[Lee, Wei-Liang] Acad Sinica, Res Ctr Environm Changes, Taipei 115, Taiwan. [Liou, K. N.] Univ Calif Los Angeles, Dept Atmospher & Ocean Sci, Los Angeles, CA USA. [Liou, K. N.] Univ Calif Los Angeles, Joint Inst Reg Earth Syst Sci & Engn, Los Angeles, CA USA.; Lee, WL (reprint author), Acad Sinica, Res Ctr Environm Changes, Taipei 115, Taiwan.; leelupin@gate.sinica.edu.tw"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.atmosenv.2012.03.024	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Lei,Shufei;Iles,Alastair;Kelly,Maggi"	Characterizing the Networks of Digital Information that Support Collaborative Adaptive Forest Management in Sierra Nevada Forests	Environmental management	Environ.Manage.	2015	JUL	56	1	94	109	"Citation analysis;Collaborative adaptive management;Information flow;Information networks;SNAMP;Web analytics;NATURAL-RESOURCE MANAGEMENT;WEB SERVICES;COMANAGEMENT;SCIENCE;GOVERNANCE;CHALLENGES;RETRIEVAL;FRAMEWORK;SEEKING;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Some of the factors that can contribute to the success of collaborative adaptive management-such as social learning, open communication, and trust-are built upon a foundation of the open exchange of information about science and management between participants and the public. Despite the importance of information transparency, the use and flow of information in collaborative adaptive management has not been characterized in detail in the literature, and currently there exist opportunities to develop strategies for increasing the exchange of information, as well as to track information flow in such contexts. As digital information channels and networks have been increased over the last decade, powerful new information monitoring tools have also been evolved allowing for the complete characterization of information products through their production, transport, use, and monitoring. This study uses these tools to investigate the use of various science and management information products in a case study-the Sierra Nevada Adaptive Management Project-using a mixed method (citation analysis, web analytics, and content analysis) research approach borrowed from the information processing and management field. The results from our case study show that information technologies greatly facilitate the flow and use of digital information, leading to multiparty collaborations such as knowledge transfer and public participation in science research. We conclude with recommendations for expanding information exchange in collaborative adaptive management by taking advantage of available information technologies and networks.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0364-152X	 	"[Lei, Shufei; Iles, Alastair; Kelly, Maggi] Univ Calif Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720 USA. [Kelly, Maggi] Univ Calif Berkeley, Geospatial Innovat Facil, Berkeley, CA 94720 USA.; Kelly, M (reprint author), Univ Calif Berkeley, 130 Mulford Hall,3114, Berkeley, CA 94720 USA.; maggi@berkeley.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s00267-015-0497-x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Leon,Stephane;Espigares,Victor;Enrique Ruiz,Jose;Verdes-Montenegro,Lourdes;Mauersberger,Rainer;Brunswig,Walter;Kramer,Carsten;de Dios Santander-Vela,Juan;Wiesemeyer,Helmut"	TAPAS, a VO archive at the IRAM 30-m telescope	Experimental Astronomy	 	2012	JUL	34	1	65	88	"Astronomical database;Virtual observatory;Radioastronomy;Astronomy & Astrophysics ER"	Astronomical observatories are today generating increasingly large volumes of data. For an efficient use of them, databases have been built following the standards proposed by the International Virtual Observatory Alliance (IVOA), providing a common protocol to query them and make them interoperable. The IRAM 30-m radio telescope, located in Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain) is a millimeter wavelength telescope with a constantly renewed, extensive choice of instruments, and capable of covering the frequency range between 80 and 370 GHz. It is continuously producing a large amount of data thanks to the more than 200 scientific projects observed each year. The TAPAS archive at the IRAM 30-m telescope is aimed to provide public access to the headers describing the observations performed with the telescope, according to a defined data policy, making as well the technical data available to the IRAM staff members. A special emphasis has been made to make it Virtual Observatory (VO) compliant, and to offer a VO compliant web interface allowing to make the information available to the scientific community. TAPAS is built using the Django Python framework on top of a relational MySQL database, and is fully integrated with the telescope control system. The TAPAS data model (DM) is based on the Radio Astronomical DAta Model for Single dish radio telescopes (RADAMS), to allow for easy integration into the VO infrastructure. A metadata modeling layer is used by the data-filler to allow an implementation free from assumptions about the control system and the underlying database. TAPAS and its public web interface (http://tapas.iram.es) provides a scalable system that can evolve with new instruments and observing modes. A meta description of the DM has been introduced in TAPAS in order to both avoid undesired coupling between the code and the DM and to provide a better management of the archive. A subset of the header data stored in TAPAS will be made available at the CDS.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0922-6435	 	"[Leon, Stephane; Mauersberger, Rainer] Joint ALMA Observ ESO, Santiago, Chile. [Leon, Stephane; Espigares, Victor; Mauersberger, Rainer; Brunswig, Walter; Kramer, Carsten; Wiesemeyer, Helmut] Inst Radioastron Millimetr IRAM, Granada 18012, Spain. [Enrique Ruiz, Jose; Verdes-Montenegro, Lourdes; de Dios Santander-Vela, Juan] CSIC, Inst Astrofis Andalucia, E-18080 Granada, Spain. [Wiesemeyer, Helmut] Max Planck Inst Radio Astron, D-53121 Bonn, Germany.; Leon, S (reprint author), Joint ALMA Observ ESO, Av Alonso de Cordova 3107, Santiago, Chile.; sleon@alma.cl"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10686-012-9299-9	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Leverkus,Alexandro B.;Castro,Jorge;Delgado-Capel,Manuel J.;Molinas-Gonzalez,Carlos;Pulgar,Manuel;Maranon-Jimenez,Sara;Delgado-Huertas,Antonio;Querejeta,Jose I."	Restoring for the present or restoring for the future: enhanced performance of two sympatric oaks (Quercus ilex and Quercus pyrenaica) above the current forest limit	Restoration Ecology	Restor.Ecol.	2015	NOV	23	6	936	946	"assisted colonization;climate change;isotopic analysis;reforestation;stable isotopes;uphill shifts;CARBON-ISOTOPE DISCRIMINATION;CLIMATE-CHANGE;NURSE PLANTS;ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION;STOMATAL CONDUCTANCE;STABLE;OXYGEN;LEAF;SHRUBS;WATER;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Reforestation is common to restore degraded ecosystems, but tree-species choice often neglects ongoing environmental changes. We evaluated the performance of planted seedlings of two oak species at two sites in a Mediterranean mountain (Sierra Nevada, SE Spain): one located within the current altitudinal forest range (1,600-1,760 m), and one above the upper forest limit (1,970-2,120 m). The forest service planted 1,350 seedlings of the deciduous Pyrenean oak and the evergreen Holm oak in a postfire successional shrubland. After 2 years, seedlings were monitored for survival, and a subset of 110 Pyrenean oaks and 185 Holm oaks were harvested for analyses of biomass and foliar nutrient status, C-13, and O-18. Both species showed the highest survival and leaf N status above the upper forest limit, and survival increased with altitude within each plot. The deciduous oak benefited most from planting at higher altitude, and it also had greater biomass at the higher site. Correlations between foliar N, O-18, and C-13 across elevations indicate tighter stomatal control of water loss and greater water-use efficiency with increasing plant N status at higher altitude, which may represent a so-far overlooked positive feedback mechanism that could foster uphill range shifts in water-limited mountain regions. Given ongoing trends and future projections of increasing temperature and aridity throughout the Mediterranean region, tree-species selection for forest restoration should target forecasted climatic conditions rather than those prevailing in the past. This study highlights that ecosystem restoration provides an opportunity to assist species range shifts under rapidly changing climate.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1061-2971	 	"[Leverkus, Alexandro B.; Castro, Jorge; Molinas-Gonzalez, Carlos] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Delgado-Capel, Manuel J.; Delgado-Huertas, Antonio] CSIC UGR, Unidad Invest Biogeoquim Isotopos Estables, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra, E-18100 Granada, Spain. [Pulgar, Manuel] Univ Jaen, Fac Ciencias Expt, Dept Biol Anim Vegetal & Ecol, E-23071 Jaen, Spain. [Maranon-Jimenez, Sara] Helmholtz Zentrum Umweltforsch GmbH UFZ, Dept Hydrosyst Modellierung, D-04318 Leipzig, Germany. [Querejeta, Jose I.] CSIC, CEBAS, Dept Conservac Suelo & Agua, E-30100 Murcia, Spain.; Leverkus, AB (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; leverkus@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/rec.12259	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Leverkus,Alexandro B.;Lorite,Juan;Navarro,Francisco B.;Sanchez-Canete,Enrique P.;Castro,Jorge"	Post-fire salvage logging alters species composition and reduces cover, richness, and diversity in Mediterranean plant communities	Journal of environmental management	J.Environ.Manage.	2014	Jan-15	133	 	323	331	"Biological legacies;Clear-cutting;Post-fire restoration;Post-fire burnt-wood management;Salvage harvesting;Sierra Nevada National Park;VEGETATION-RECOVERY;FIRE SEVERITY;SEEDLING ESTABLISHMENT;NORTHEASTERN;ALBERTA;PINE PLANTATIONS;ORGANIC-MATTER;FOREST;MANAGEMENT;WILDFIRE;IMPACTS;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	"An intense debate exists on the effects of post-fire salvage logging on plant community regeneration, but scant data are available derived from experimental studies. We analyzed the effects of salvage logging on plant community regeneration in terms of species richness, diversity, cover, and composition by experimentally managing a burnt forest on a Mediterranean mountain (Sierra Nevada, S Spain). In each of three plots located at different elevations, three replicates of three treatments were implemented seven months after the fire, differing in the degree of intervention: ""Non-Intervention"" (all trees left standing), ""Partial Cut plus Lopping"" (felling 90% of the trees, cutting the main branches, and leaving all the biomass in situ), and ""Salvage Logging"" (felling and piling the logs, and masticating the woody debris). Plant composition in each treatment was monitored two years after the fire in linear point transects. Post-fire salvage logging was associated with reduced species richness, Shannon diversity, and total plant cover. Moreover, salvaged sites hosted different species assemblages and 25% lower cover of seeder species (but equal cover of resprouters) compared to the other treatments. Cover of trees and shrubs was also lowest in Salvage Logging, which could suggest a potential slow-down of forest regeneration. Most of these results were consistent among the three plots despite plots hosting different plant communities. Concluding, our study suggests that salvage logging may reduce species richness and diversity, as well as the recruitment of woody species, which could delay the natural regeneration of the ecosystem. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0301-4797	 	"[Leverkus, Alexandro B.; Castro, Jorge] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Lorite, Juan] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Bot, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Navarro, Francisco B.] IFAPA Ctr Camino Purchil, Area Prod Ecol & Recursos Nat, Grp Sistemas & Recursos Forestales, E-18004 Granada, Spain. [Sanchez-Canete, Enrique P.] CSIC, Estn Expt Zonas Aridas, Dept Desertificac & Geoecol, E-04120 Almeria, Spain. [Sanchez-Canete, Enrique P.] Ctr Andaluz Media Ambiente CEAMA, E-18006 Granada, Spain.; Leverkus, AB (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; leverkus@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.jenvman.2013.12.014	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Leverkus,Alexandro B.;Rojo,Manuel;Castro,Jorge"	Habitat complexity and individual acorn protectors enhance the post-fire restoration of oak forests via seed sowing	Ecological Engineering	Ecol.Eng.	2015	OCT	83	 	276	280	"Quercus;Ecosystem restoration;Seed removal;Seed sowing;Seeding;Innovation;Seed protector;QUERCUS-ILEX;REFORESTATION;REGENERATION;MANAGEMENT;PREDATION;ESTABLISHMENT;RECRUITMENT;ECOSYSTEM;RODENTS;BURIAL;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Engineering ER"	Oak reforestation via direct sowing has advantages over planting for economic and plant-morphological reasons, but the risk of high acorn predation usually dissuades land managers from using this method. In a previous study we hypothesised that overcoming acorn predation would require both large-scale solutions to reduce predation by large mammals - which we had effectively obtained through ecosystem management leading to greater habitat complexity - and small-scale protection to tackle predation by small mammals - which we had been unsuccessful to encounter. In this study we aimed to test this hypothesis under the same management areas but with a new acorn-scale protective device named seed shelter. We carried out an acorn predation experiment in Sierra Nevada (S Spain), in a burnt area with three replicates of each of two post-fire management treatments: non-intervention (NI), with high habitat complexity due to the abundance of lying burnt trees, and salvage logging (SL), with low habitat complexity due to the previous felling and piling of the tree trunks and chopping of the branches. In each replicate we sowed 50 acorns with seed shelter and 50 acorns without (N = 600 acorns). After 129 days, predation by rodents averaged 17% for control acorns, while the seed shelter reduced this to nil. Predation by boars (17.5% overall) was not affected by the seed shelter but was reduced to one-sixth in the NI treatment (5% vs 30% in SL), so we obtained the lowest overall predation rates in the combined NI + seed shelter treatment (5%). We thus corroborated our hypothesis that combining large-scale management with an acorn-scale protection can greatly increase the success of sowing. We expect these outcomes to increase the effectiveness of direct sowing and to raise the share of this practice in reforestation, especially for species that develop best with direct sowing such as oaks. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0925-8574	 	"[Leverkus, Alexandro B.; Rojo, Manuel; Castro, Jorge] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Leverkus, AB (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; leverkus@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.ecoleng.2015.06.033	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Liao,Jau-Chyn;Valenzuela-Rios,Jose I."	Upper Givetian and Frasnian (Middle and Upper Devonian) conodonts from Ampriu (Aragonian Pyrenees, Spain): global correlations and palaeogeographic relations	Palaeontology	Palaeontology	2012	JUL	55	 	819	842	"biostratigraphy;palaeogeography;Middle Devonian;Upper Devonian;Spanish Pyrenees;Subfacies Sierra Negra;Gondwana;SPANISH CENTRAL PYRENEES;SECTION;STRATIGRAPHY;POLYGNATHUS;BIOFACIES;IOWA;Paleontology ER"	This report describes for the first time a part of the Middle and Upper Devonian conodont sequence of the Sierra Negra Subfacies in the Aragonian Pyrenees (Spain), establishing the basis for further sound correlations both across the distinct Pyrenean facies and subfacies and on other relevant world areas. The description of 20 conodont taxa and their stratigraphical distribution permits recognition of two separate time intervals. The older one corresponds to the lower Upper Givetian (Middle Devonian), hermanni to cristatus ectypus zones. The younger interval is uppermost Lower Frasnian to lower Middle Frasnian (Upper Devonian) and is equivalent to MN4MN6 zones. The combination of litho- and conodont biofacies supports the distinction between the Sierra Negra and Renanue Subfacies. Conodont biofacies for the studied interval are partially close to the ones from the Compte Subfacies, but lithofacies are clearly different. This faunal similarity fosters accurate correlation between subfacies and stimulates further research aiming at Devonian Pyrenean basin(s) reconstruction. Additionally, this faunal sequence permits direct comparison with regions located in northern Gondwana and in the Russian platform for part of the interval. Comparison with Laurasia, mainly with the Northwest Territories of Canada and the north-western United States, is also provided. Some taxa are also common with eastern and central Asia (China, Siberia, Tadzhikistan, Afghanistan), Australia and western USA (Nevada).	"PT: J; PN: 4"	 		 	 	 	 				 	0031-0239	 	"[Liao, Jau-Chyn; Valenzuela-Rios, Jose I.] Univ Valencia, Dept Geol, E-46100 Burjassot, Spain. [Liao, Jau-Chyn] Univ Complutense Madrid, Dept Paleontol, E-28040 Madrid, Spain.; Valenzuela-Rios, JI (reprint author), Univ Valencia, Dept Geol, C Dr Moliner 50, E-46100 Burjassot, Spain.; jau.liao@uv.es; jose.i.valenzuela@uv.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/j.1475-4983.2012.01150.x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Lihova,Judita;Carlsen,Tor;Brochmann,Christian;Marhold,Karol"	Contrasting phylogeographies inferred for the two alpine sister species Cardamine resedifolia and C-alpina (Brassicaceae)	Journal of Biogeography	J.Biogeogr.	2009	JAN	36	1	104	120	"AFLP;Alps;Cardamine;Corsica;disjunction;genetic diversity;phylogeography;Pleistocene glaciations;Pyrenees;vicariance;GENETIC CONSEQUENCES;GLACIAL SURVIVAL;EUROPEAN ALPS;MOLECULAR;EVIDENCE;TABULA-RASA;PLANTS;DISPERSAL;HISTORY;DNA;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Physical Geography ER"	We use Cardamine alpina and C. resedifolia as models to address the detailed history of disjunctions in the European alpine system. These species grow on siliceous bedrock: C. alpina in the Alps and Pyrenees, and C. resedifolia in several mountain ranges from the Sierra Nevada to the Balkans. We explore differentiation among their disjunct populations as well as within the contiguous Alpine and Pyrenean ranges, and compare the phylogeographical histories of these diploid sister species. We also include samples of the closely related, arctic diploid C. bellidifolia in order to explore its origin and post-glacial establishment. European alpine system, Norway and Iceland. We employed amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs). AFLP data were analysed using principal coordinates analysis, neighbour joining and Bayesian clustering, and measures of diversity and differentiation were computed. For the snow-bed species C. alpina (27 populations, 203 plants) we resolved two strongly divergent lineages, corresponding to the Alps and the Pyrenees. Although multiple glacial refugia were invoked in the Pyrenees, we inferred only a single one in the Maritime Alps - from which rapid post-glacial colonization of the entire Alps occurred, accompanied by a strong founder effect. For C. resedifolia (33 populations, 247 plants), which has a broader ecological amplitude and a wider distribution, the genetic structuring was rather weak and did not correspond to the main geographical disjunctions. This species consists of two widespread and largely sympatric main genetic groups (one of them subdivided into four geographically more restricted groups), and frequent secondary contacts exist between them. The conspicuously different histories of these two sister species are likely to be associated with their different ecologies. The more abundant habitats available for C. resedifolia may have increased the probability of its gradual migration during colder periods and also of successful establishment after long-distance dispersal, whereas C. alpina has been restricted by its dependence on snow-beds. Surprisingly, the arctic C. bellidifolia formed a very divergent lineage with little variation, contradicting a scenario of recent, post-glacial migration from the Alps or Pyrenees.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0305-0270	 	"[Lihova, Judita; Marhold, Karol] Slovak Acad Sci, Inst Bot, SK-84523 Bratislava, Slovakia. [Carlsen, Tor; Brochmann, Christian] Univ Oslo, Nat Hist Museum, Natl Ctr Biosystemat, Oslo, Norway. [Marhold, Karol] Charles Univ Prague, Dept Bot, Prague 2, Czech Republic.; Lihova, J (reprint author), Slovak Acad Sci, Inst Bot, Dubravska Cesta 14, SK-84523 Bratislava, Slovakia.; judita.lihova@savba.sk"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/j.1365-2699.2008.01998.x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Linares,Juan Carlos;Senhadji,Karim;Herrero,Asier;Hodar,Jose A."	Growth patterns at the southern range edge of Scots pine: Disentangling the effects of drought and defoliation by the pine processionary caterpillar	Forest Ecology and Management	For.Ecol.Manage.	2014	Mar-01	315	 	129	137	"Basal area increment;Mixed-effects models;Pinus sylvestris;Thaumetopoea pityocampa;Tree rings;MOTH THAUMETOPOEA-PITYOCAMPA;CLIMATE-CHANGE;RADIAL GROWTH;GAS-EXCHANGE;BRUTIA TEN.;FOREST PEST;SYLVESTRIS;EXPANSION;NITROGEN;IMPACT;Forestry ER"	Dendrochronology and climate-growth modelling were used to assess to what extent defoliation by pine processionary moth (Thaumetopoea pityocampa) depresses growth in Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) at the species' southernmost distribution limit (southern Spain). Basal area increment (BAI) was measured in severely defoliated and non-defoliated trees, for a period of 20 years, a period that includes three severe droughts and two severe outbreaks of pine processionary moth. Linear mixed-effects models of BAI as a function of climate were run for non-defoliated trees and thereafter the fit of the model was tested separately both for defoliated and non-defoliated ones. Severely defoliated trees showed pronounced growth reductions during defoliation, although their cumulative basal area and drought-sensitivity were similar to those of non-defoliated trees. The results were not related to tree size or age, while non-climatic residuals were significantly related to the defoliation percentage. The combined effect of drought stress and processionary caterpillar defoliation caused short-term growth reduction in affected trees, although defoliated trees presented higher growth recovery after the defoliation, displaying similar average growth. We conclude that, in Scots pine, the growth reduction induced by processionary caterpillar defoliation can be overcome to a greater extent than the impact of drought. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0378-1127	 	"[Linares, Juan Carlos; Senhadji, Karim] Univ Pablo Olavide, Dpto Sistemas Fis Quim & Nat, E-41013 Seville, Spain. [Herrero, Asier; Hodar, Jose A.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dpto Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Hodar, JA (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dpto Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jhodar@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.foreco.2013.12.029	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Lopez Sanchez-Vizcaino,Vicente;Teresa Gomez-Pugnaire,Maria;Garrido,Carlos J.;Alberto Padron-Navarta,Jose;Mellini,Marcello"	Breakdown mechanisms of titanclinohumite in antigorite serpentinite (Cerro del Almirez massif, S. Spain): A petrological and TEM study	Lithos	Lithos	2009	FEB	107	03-Apr	216	226	"Antigorite serpentinite;Titanclinohumite;Vein;Breakdown;Dehydration;HIGH-PRESSURE BREAKDOWN;SE SPAIN;TITANIAN CLINOHUMITE;NEVADO-FILABRIDE;BETIC CORDILLERA;HUMITE MINERALS;MANTLE OLIVINE;ALPE ARAMI;PERIDOTITE;DEFECTS;Geochemistry & Geophysics;Mineralogy ER"	Veins with titanclinohumite (Ti-Chu) and olivine occur close to clincipyroxenite layers scattered through the antigorite serpentinites from the Cerro del Almirez ultramafic massif (Sierra Nevada, Betic Cordillera, S. Spain). They formed at estimated maximum P-T conditions of 1.3 GPa and 475 degrees C, due to simultaneous breakdown of former Ti-rich clinopyroxene and brucite in the presence of 6 vol.% of free water. Breakdown of Ti-Chu single crystals to an olivine+ ilmenite framework was gradual: small relict patches of Ti-Chu appear even at some distance from the reaction front and ilmenite grains coarsen and become less frequent away from the front Detailed TEM data support this interpretation: olivine in equilibrium with Ti-Chu is structurally and chemically homogeneous, whereas Ti-Chu shows ubiquitous intermixed (001) olivine lamellae. Product olivine close to the front shows pervasive and continuous (001) Ti-Chu lamellar faults. These become less frequent away from the reaction front, due to the completion of the Ti-Chu breakdown. This textural sequence suggests both progressive transfer of Ti to ilmenite and progressive release of H(2)O during the breakdown of Ti-Chu. A second hydration breakdown reaction can be observed very locally, in the contact between Ti-Chu and diopside, producing a symplectitic intergrowth of tremolite and ilmenite. Textural features of both reactions point to a very limited availability of water during Ti-Chu breakdown. This suggests that veins operated as closed systems. Complete obliteration of Ti-Chu owing to the antigorite dehydration breakdown can be observed in the Almirez massif rocks. This precludes OH-Ti-Chu from Atg-serpentinite as an efficient water or titanium carrier into deep mantle in hot subduction zones. (c) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0024-4937	 	"[Lopez Sanchez-Vizcaino, Vicente] Univ Jaen, Dept Geol, Escuela Politecn Super, Linares 23700, Spain. [Teresa Gomez-Pugnaire, Maria; Alberto Padron-Navarta, Jose] Univ Granada, Dept Mineral & Petrol, Granada 18002, Spain. [Teresa Gomez-Pugnaire, Maria; Garrido, Carlos J.] CSIC, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra, Granada 18002, Spain. [Teresa Gomez-Pugnaire, Maria; Garrido, Carlos J.] Fac Ciencias, UGR, Granada 18002, Spain. [Mellini, Marcello] Univ Siena, Dipartimento Sci Terra, I-53100 Siena, Italy.; Sanchez-Vizcaino, VL (reprint author), Univ Jaen, Dept Geol, Escuela Politecn Super, Alfonso X El Sabio 28, Linares 23700, Spain.; vlopez@ujaen.es; teresa@ugr.es; carlosg@ugr.es; padron@ugr.es; mellini@unisi.it"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.lithos.2008.10.008	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Lopez,Gabriel;Javier Batlles,Francisco"	Estimating solar radiation from MODIS data	Proceedings of the Solarpaces 2013 International Conference	 	2014	 	49	 	2362	2369	"daily solar radiation;MODIS;complex topography;IRRADIANCE;CLEAR;MODEL;Energy & Fuels;Engineering ER"	"The assessment of the solar energy resources over large areas and the elaboration of solar radiation maps are nowdays conducted using satellite derived information. Among the existing methodologies, those based on parametric models to firstly estimate the clear-sky solar radiation are usual. The success of that option depends both on the accuracy of the solar radiation algorithm and the satellite derived information and on the relationship between each other. In this work, a new accurate parametric model to estimate global solar radiation under cloudless conditions is presented. Atmospheric precipitable water vapour content is the only experimental input to the model. These values are derived from the MODIS sensor, the major facility instrument on the EOS polar orbiting satellite platforms. The evaluation of the model performance has been carried on using ground measurements obtained in twelve radiometric stations located in the north face of the Sierra Nevada Natural Park in the surroundings of Hueneja (Granada), a town located in the South East of Spain in a mountain zone (Sierra Nevada, Granada, Spain). The radiometric stations record global solar radiation, atmospheric temperature and relative humidity. Since the precipitable water vapour content is also available from the ground stations, a preliminary analysis comparing both experimental data sets is also presented. ;(C) 2013 Gabriel Lopez. Published by Elsevier Ltd."	PT: S	 	Pitchumani,R.	Energy Procedia	 	 	 				 	1876-6102	 	"[Lopez, Gabriel] Univ Huelva, Escuela Tecn Super Ingn, Dept Ingn Elect & Term, Huelva 21819, Spain.; Lopez, G (reprint author), Univ Huelva, Escuela Tecn Super Ingn, Dept Ingn Elect & Term, Huelva 21819, Spain.; gabriel.lolpez@die.uhu.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.egypro.2014.03.250	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Lopez,Gabriel;Javier Batlles,Francisco;Rossi,Fillipo"	Deriving solar radiation in a mountain area from MODIS information	2013 Ises Solar World Congress	 	2014	 	57	 	1092	1099	"daily solar radiation;MODIS;precipitable water vapour;IRRADIANCE;CLEAR;MODEL;Energy & Fuels ER"	Solar radiation has a direct influence on the air and ground temperature, indirect influence on the value of atmospheric humidity, movement of air masses and precipitations, and it is easy to understand how its evaluation is essential not only in the technological area such as for sizing solar heating and photovoltaic plants, but also in fields such as agriculture or meteorology. Nowadays, the assessment of the solar energy resources over large areas and the elaboration of solar radiation maps are conducted using satellite derived information. Among the existing methodologies, those based on parametric models to firstly estimate the clear-sky solar radiation are usual. The success of that option depends both on the accuracy of the solar radiation algorithm and the satellite derived information and on the relationship between each other. In this work, daily global solar irradiation under clear skies is estimated by means of a model which includes the horizon effects. This characteristic is important in those cases where a complex topography is present, such as mountains. The topographic information is obtained from a digital elevation model. The other inputs to the model are the atmospheric precipitable water vapour content, the Angstrm's turbidity coefficient and the ground albedo. Experimental values of the atmospheric precipitable water vapour content are obtained from the MODIS sensor. The two latter parameters are averaged values calculated on previous studies. Estimates by the model are compared with ground measurements obtained in fourteen radiometric stations located in a mountain zone (Sierra Nevada, Granada, Spain) recording global solar radiation, atmospheric temperature and relative humidity. Since ground experimental values of precipitable water vapour content are available, a comparison between these values and those derived from the MODIS sensor is also presented. (C) 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.	PT: S	 	Lentz,A. Renne,D.	Energy Procedia	 	 	 				 	1876-6102	 	"[Lopez, Gabriel] Univ Huelva, Escuela Tecn Super Ingn, Dept Ingn Elect & Term, Huelva 21819, Spain.; Lopez, G (reprint author), Univ Huelva, Escuela Tecn Super Ingn, Dept Ingn Elect & Term, Huelva 21819, Spain.; gabriel.lopez@die.uhu.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.egypro.2014.10.095	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Lopez-Olvera,Jorge R.;Serrano,Emmanuel;Armenteros,Anna;Perez,Jesus M.;Fandos,Paulino;Carvalho,Joao;Velarde,Roser;Cano-Manuel,Francisco J.;Raez,Arian;Espinosa,Jose;Soriguer,Ramon C.;Granados,Jose E."	Sex-biased severity of sarcoptic mange at the same biological cost in a sexually dimorphic ungulate	Parasites & Vectors	 	2015	Nov-10	8	 	583	583	"Body condition;Kidney fat index;Sarcoptes scabiei;Sexual dimorphism;Capra pyrenaica;IBEX CAPRA-PYRENAICA;MOUNTAIN UNGULATE;PARASITES;SCABIEI;SPAIN;PARK;Parasitology ER"	Background: In sexually dimorphic species, male susceptibility to parasite infection and mortality is frequently higher than in females. The Iberian ibex (Capra pyrenaica) is a sexually dimorphic mountain ungulate endemic to the Iberian Peninsula commonly affected by sarcoptic mange, a chronic catabolic skin disease caused by Sarcoptes scabiei. Since 1992, sarcoptic mange affects the Iberian ibex population of the Sierra Nevada Natural Space (SNNS). This study aims at exploring whether mange severity, in terms of prevalence and its effects on body condition, is male-biased in Iberian ibex. Findings: One thousand and seventy-one adult Iberian ibexes (439 females and 632 males) were randomly shot-harvested in the SNNS from May 1995 to February 2008. Sarcoptic mange stage was classified as healthy, mildly infected or severely infected. Sex-biased prevalence of severe mange was evaluated by a Chi-square test whereas the interaction between mange severity and sex on body condition was assessed by additive models. Among scabietic individuals, the prevalence of severely affected males was 1.29 times higher than in females. On the other hand, both sexes were not able to take profit of a higher availability of seasonal food resources when sarcoptic, particularly in the severe stages. Conclusions: Sarcoptic mange severity is male-biased in Iberian ibex, though not mange effects on body condition. Behavioural, immunological and physiological characteristics of males may contribute to this partial sex-biased susceptibility to sarcoptic mange.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1756-3305	 	"[Lopez-Olvera, Jorge R.; Serrano, Emmanuel; Armenteros, Anna; Velarde, Roser; Raez, Arian] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Dept Med & Cirurgia Anim, Serv Ecopatol Fauna Salvatge SEFaS, E-08193 Bellaterra, Spain. [Serrano, Emmanuel; Carvalho, Joao] Univ Aveiro, CESAM, Dept Biol, P-3810193 Aveiro, Portugal. [Perez, Jesus M.; Espinosa, Jose] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, E-23071 Jaen, Spain. [Fandos, Paulino] Agencia Medio Ambiente & Agua, E-41092 Seville, Spain. [Cano-Manuel, Francisco J.; Granados, Jose E.] Espacio Nat Sierra Nevada, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Soriguer, Ramon C.] CSIC, Estn Biol Donana, E-41092 Seville, Spain.; Lopez-Olvera, JR (reprint author), Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Dept Med & Cirurgia Anim, Serv Ecopatol Fauna Salvatge SEFaS, E-08193 Bellaterra, Spain.; Jordi.Lopez.Olvera@uab.cat"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1186/s13071-015-1186-6	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Lopez-Rodriguez,M. J.;de Figueroa,J. M. Tierno;Alba-Tercedor,J."	Life history and larval feeding of some species of Ephemeroptera and Plecoptera (Insecta) in the Sierra Nevada (Southern Iberian Peninsula)	Hydrobiologia	Hydrobiologia	2008	SEP	610	 	277	295	"mayflies;stoneflies;larval biology;temperature;Southern Spain;EPHEMERELLA-IGNITA PODA;MOUNTAIN STREAM;CYCLE;RIVER;GROWTH;COMMUNITIES;DYNAMICS;POLAND;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	We monitored two high mountain streams from the Sierra Nevada (Southern Spain) monthly throughout an annual cycle, measuring and analyzing physical and chemical parameters. Temperature was hourly registered. We studied life cycles and larval feeding of four mayfly species [Serratella ignita (Poda, 1761), Serratella spinosa nevadensis (Alba-Tercedor, 1981), Alainites muticus (Linnaeus, 1758), and Baetis alpinus Pictet, 1843] and two stonefly species [Amphinemura triangularis (Ris, 1902) and Capnioneura mitis Despax, 1932]. Some species changed their strategies (growth rate, life cycle duration, and/or voltinism) in accordance with different conditions (depending on the altitude and temperature). The gut content data showed that species fed mainly on detritus (as collector-gatherers or as shredders), except B. alpinus that behaved as a scraper in one of the streams. Differences in the larval diet of the same species in different streams, and even through its life, support the idea of not using general models to extrapolate the function of a species from a higher taxonomical level.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0018-8158	 	"[Lopez-Rodriguez, M. J.; de Figueroa, J. M. Tierno; Alba-Tercedor, J.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Biol Anim, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Lopez-Rodriguez, MJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Biol Anim, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; manujlr@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10750-008-9444-7	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Lorite,Juan;Gomez,Francisco;Francisco Mota,Juan;Valle,Francisco"	Orophilous plant communities of Baetic range in Andalusia (south-eastern Spain): priority altitudinal-islands for conservation	Phytocoenologia	Phytocoenologia	2007	Dec-21	37	03-Apr	625	644	"syntaxa;high-mountain communities;priority areas;conservation;BIODIVERSITY;RESERVES;FLORA;Plant Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	"The present work compares several localities in the high-mountain of the Baetic Cordilleras on the basis of plant communities, to establish priorities for conservation. The main objectives of the work are: 1) Identification of the whole set of plant communities described in the study area. 2) Analysis of the phytogeographical relationships between the summit areas. 3) Characterize a sere of ecological and management variables for each syntaxon that led us establish the main ""conservation-value"" groups, and the weight of each variable. 4) Calculation of values such as richness, continuous or discontinuous rarity, and complementarity. 5) Establish conclusions relevant to conservation purposes at community level in these areas. For this, 17 mountain areas have been selected, occupying a surface area of 2197.5 km(2) and represented by 65 syntaxa. For each area, information has been compiled to construct two data matrices, which have been analysed with multivariate techniques of classification (cluster analysis) and ordination (correspondence analysis) as well as non-linear methods (categorical principal-component analysis; CATPCA). The priority areas for conservation have been determined by applying the concepts of richness, continuous rarity, discontinuous rarity and complementarity. In the 17 mountain areas, a series of aspects related to community ecology were analysed, such as types of habitats represented, distribution, thermotypes, ombroytpes and substrate, in addition to others related to diversity and conservation, including type of rarity, richness in endemic and/or endangered species, protection level, conservation status, and threat factors. The data analysis of presence/ absence in the different massifs resulted in 4 groups: the first composed of Teleda-Almijara, calcareous Sierra Nevada, and Gador; the second of Grazalema, las Nieves, Loja, Lujar, Estancias, and Huetor-Harana; the third of Baza, Maria-Orce, Cazorla, the Subbetic, Magina, and la Sagra; the fourth of Filabres and siliceous Sierra Nevada. The CATPCA quite clearly separated the groups with well-differentiated conservation needs on the basis of their ecology and degree conservation (this being a combination of different factors). Finally, the work concludes by discussing the results and making a series of recommendations for conservation at community level."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0340-269X	 	"[Lorite, Juan; Valle, Francisco] Univ Granada, Dept Bot, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Gomez, Francisco; Francisco Mota, Juan] Univ Almeria, Dept Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Almeria 04120, Spain.; Lorite, J (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Bot, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jlorite@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1127/0340-269X/2007/0037-0625	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Lorite,Juan;Molina-Morales,Mercedes;Maria Canadas,Eva;Ballesteros,Miguel;Penas,Julio"	Evaluating a vegetation-recovery plan in Mediterranean alpine ski slopes: A chronosequence-based study in Sierra Nevada (SE Spain)	Landscape and Urban Planning	Landscape Urban Plann.	2010	Aug-30	97	2	92	97	"Ski runs;Mediterranean;Plant diversity;Recovery;Evaluation;Discriminant analysis;NORTHERN JAPAN;SOIL-EROSION;BAETIC RANGE;RESTORATION;CONSERVATION;GERMINATION;PATTERNS;PRIORITY;HOKKAIDO;ISLANDS;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Geography;Physical Geography;Urban Studies ER"	In this paper, we assess the results found in the restoration of vegetation on ski runs in the Mediterranean high mountain, contrasting different issues widely used for evaluating recovery plans, such as cover, richness, diversity, growth, and qualitative species composition, with the aim of establishing their relative validity as well as finding a straightforward model to assess the success of the restoration of degraded areas. Ski runs were selected in Sierra Nevada ski station (SE Spain) in which hydroseeding was performed from 2002 to 2005. The sampling design was based on a chronosequence approach, using natural areas established as 'models' (i.e. target for long-term restoration) to evaluate the restoration success based on the similarity to the model. Although parameters such as growth, cover, and even richness or diversity reached similar values to the ones in the model areas after 4 years (i.e. natural perennial mountain pastures), other indicators such as composition, measured in a qualitative way as the ratio of colonizing species to total species, showed different occurrence values for the most abundant species. Moreover, when the whole pool of species was taken into account using discriminant analysis, the results differed, showing that although the process performed well, the recovery (sensu stricto) requires longer periods than the duration assessed to be fully successful. The results showed that common parameters, such as growth, cover, richness, or diversity, when used solely may lead to misinterpretation, and therefore additional methods to compare composition, such as the discriminant analysis, are strongly recommended. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0169-2046	 	"[Lorite, Juan; Maria Canadas, Eva; Ballesteros, Miguel; Penas, Julio] Univ Granada, Dept Bot, Fac Ciencias, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Molina-Morales, Mercedes] Univ Granada, Dept Bot, Dept Biol Anim, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Lorite, J (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Bot, Fac Ciencias, Avda Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jlorite@ugr.es; merche@ugr.es; ecanadas@ugr.es; ballesterosjimenez@hotmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.landurbplan.2010.04.015	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Loureiro,Joao;Castro,Mariana;de Oliveira,Jose Cerca;Mota,Lucie;Torices,Ruben"	Genome size variation and polyploidy incidence in the alpine flora from Spain	Anales del Jardin Botanico de Madrid	An.Jard.Bot.Madrid	2013	JAN-JUN	70	1	39	47	"alpine vegetation;DNA ploidy level;nuclear DNA content;Picos de Europa;Sierra Nevada;NUCLEAR-DNA AMOUNTS;MACARONESIAN ANGIOSPERMS;PLOIDY LEVEL;EVOLUTION;PLANTS;CYTOMETRY;DIVERSITY;ASTERACEAE;PATTERNS;REGIONS;Plant Sciences ER"	The interest to study genome evolution, in particular genome size variation and polyploid incidence, has increased in recent years. Still, only a few studies have been focused at a community level. Of particular interest are high mountain species, because of the high frequency of narrow endemics and their higher susceptibility to extinction due to the effects of climate change. In the present study we explored genome size variation and polyploidy incidence in the entomophilous plant communities of two distinct mountain ranges, the Sierra Nevada and Picos de Europa National Parks. For that, chromosome numbers and DNA ploidies were assessed through a review of the literature, and the genome size and incidence of polyploidy in 39 taxa from several key genera were estimated using flow cytometry. In this study, first genome size estimations are given for 32 taxa. The majority of the analyzed taxa presented very small to small genome sizes (2C <= 7.0 pg), with no differences being detected between genome size and geographic origin and distribution ranges. A low incidence of polyploid taxa was observed (23.3%), with polyploids being more common in Picos de Europa than in Sierra Nevada. Most taxa inferred as polyploids were high altitude plants, but no clear pattern between polyploidy incidence and endemic status was observed. The obtained results are discussed within the context of angiosperm's genome size variation and of polyploidy incidence in alpine and arctic flora, contributing to the scientific knowledge of these natural communities of great biological importance.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0211-1322	 	"[Loureiro, Joao; Castro, Mariana; de Oliveira, Jose Cerca; Mota, Lucie; Torices, Ruben] Univ Coimbra, Ctr Funct Ecol, Dept Life Sci, P-3001401 Coimbra, Portugal.; Loureiro, J (reprint author), Univ Coimbra, Ctr Funct Ecol, Dept Life Sci, POB 3046, P-3001401 Coimbra, Portugal.; jloureiro@bot.uc.pt; mcastro@uc.pt; jose.cerca@gmail.com; luciemota.bio@gmail.com; rubentorices@gmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3989/ajbm.2350	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Lubick,Naomi	Emergency medicine for frogs	Nature	Nature	2010	Jun-10	465	7299	680	681	"DYNAMICS;DISEASE;Science & Technology - Other Topics ER"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0028-0836	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Magdaleno,F.;Blanco-Garrido,F.;Bonada,N.;Herrera-Grao,T."	How are riparian plants distributed along the riverbank topographic gradient in Mediterranean rivers? Application to minimally altered river stretches in Southern Spain	Limnetica	 	2014	JUN	33	1	121	137	"Riparian forests;topography;river morphology;vegetation;restoration;EASTERN SIERRA-NEVADA;VEGETATION STRUCTURE;SPECIES-RICHNESS;FLOW;ALTERATIONS;INSTREAM FLOW;BASIN;RESPONSES;PATTERNS;FOREST;STREAM;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	Species structure and composition in Mediterranean riparian forests are determined by hydrological features, longitudinal zonation, and riverbank topography. This study assesses the distribution of four native riparian plants along the riverbank topographic gradient in three river stretches in southern Spain, with special emphasis on the occupation of adult and young feet of each species. The studied stretches suffered minimal human disturbances, displayed semi-arid conditions, and had wide riparian areas to allow the development of the target species: black alder (Alnus glutinosa), salvia leaf willow (Salix salviifolia), narrow-leafed ash (Fraxinus angustifolia), and oleander (Nerium oleander). Thalweg height was used to define the riverbank topographic gradient. The results showed a preferential zone for black alder and salvia leaf willow in the range of 0-150 cm from the channel thalweg, with adult alders and willows being more common between 51 and 150 cm and young alders being more common under 50 cm. Conversely, narrow-leafed ash and oleander were much more frequent, and showed greater development, in the ranges of 151-200 cm and 201-250 cm, respectively, whereas the young feet of both species covered the entire topographic range. Adult feet of the four species were spatially segregated along the riverbank topographic gradient, indicating their differential ability to cope with water stress from the non-tolerant alders and willows to more tolerant narrow-leafed ash trees and oleanders. Young feet, however, showed a strategy more closely linked to the initial availability of colonisation sites within riparian areas to the dispersion strategy of each species and to the distribution of adult feet. In Mediterranean areas, where riparian management has traditionally faced great challenges, the incorporation of species preferences along riverbank gradients could improve the performance of restoration projects.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0213-8409	 	"[Magdaleno, F.] CEDEX Ctr Studies & Expt Publ Works, Madrid, Spain. [Magdaleno, F.] Tech Univ Madrid, Madrid, Spain. [Blanco-Garrido, F.; Herrera-Grao, T.] MEDIODES Consultoria Ambiental & Paisajismo SL Ma, Malaga, Spain. [Blanco-Garrido, F.] Univ Huelva, Res Grp Marismas & Playas, Huelva, Spain. [Bonada, N.] UB, Fac Biol, Dept Ecol, Grup Recerca Freshwater Ecol & Management FEM, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.; Magdaleno, F (reprint author), CEDEX Ctr Studies & Expt Publ Works, Madrid, Spain.; fernando.magdaleno@cedex.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Book, Whole	"Maiorano,Sarah Carmen;Borrelli,Luigi;Moraci,Nicola;Gulla,Giovanni"	Numerical Modelling to Calibrate the Geotechnical Model of a Deep-Seated Landslide in Weathered Crystalline Rocks: Acri (Calabria, Italy)	 	 	2015	 	 	 	1274	 	"Deep-seated landslide;Weathered gneiss;Numerical modelling;Engineering ER"	Crystalline rocks are often subjected to several types of mass movements, depending on their weathering grade. These rocks are present in the European area along the Italian and French Alps, in the North-East area of Portugal, in the Sierra Nevada Massif (Spain) and in Greece. In particular, crystalline rocks are also widespread in Calabria and a high percentage of these rocks is present in the Sila, Serre and Aspromonte Massifs. Fresh or weathered crystalline rocks, highly fractured, may be affected by deep-seated landslides due to the presence of tectonic structures, which may predispose and control the landslide mechanisms. The Serra di Buda landslide, near the town of Acri (Cosenza), can be included among the deep-seated landslides which affect weathered crystalline rocks. Starting from the geological model, the analysis of the geotechnical data (digital terrain model, borehole logs, piezometer levels, superficial and deep displacements, geomaterial characteristics, etc.) allows to detect the uncertainties inherent the elements that concur to define the geotechnical model. To reduce some of these uncertainties a calibration by means of numerical modelling is carried out, and the results obtained show the usefulness of this approach.	PT: B	 	Lollino, G Giordan, D Crosta, GB Corominas, J Azzam, R Wasowski, J Sciarra,N.	 	 	 	 				 	"978-3-319-09057-3; 978-3-319-09056-6"	 	"[Maiorano, Sarah Carmen; Borrelli, Luigi; Gulla, Giovanni] CNR IRPI, I-87036 Arcavacata Di Rende, Italy. [Moraci, Nicola] Univ Mediterranea Reggio Calabria, I-89122 Reggio Di Calabria, Italy.; Maiorano, SC (reprint author), CNR IRPI, Via Cavour 4-6, I-87036 Arcavacata Di Rende, Italy.; maiorano8@libero.it; l.borrelli@irpi.cnr.it; nicola.moraci@unirc.it; gulla@irpi.cnr.it"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/978-3-319-09057-3_223	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Maranon-Jimenez,S.;Castro,J.;Kowalski,A. S.;Serrano-Ortiz,P.;Reverter,B. R.;Sanchez-Canete,E. P.;Zamora,R."	Post-fire soil respiration in relation to burnt wood management in a Mediterranean mountain ecosystem	Forest Ecology and Management	For.Ecol.Manage.	2011	Apr-15	261	8	1436	1447	"Rain events;Salvage logging;Silvicultural treatments;Soil CO2 fluxes;Soil pore degasification;Soil temperature;Wildfire;CANADIAN BOREAL FOREST;ORGANIC-MATTER;PINE FORESTS;CO2 EFFLUX;PONDEROSA PINE;TEMPERATURE-DEPENDENCE;MICROBIAL ACTIVITY;FIRE;SEVERITY;JACK PINE;CARBON;Forestry ER"	"After a wildfire, the management of burnt wood may determine microclimatic conditions and microbiological activity with the potential to affect soil respiration. To experimentally analyze the effect on soil respiration, we manipulated a recently burned pine forest in a Mediterranean mountain (Sierra Nevada National and Natural Park, SE Spain). Three representative treatments of post-fire burnt wood management were established at two elevations: (1) ""salvage logging"" (SL), where all trees were cut, trunks removed, and branches chipped; (2) ""non-intervention"" (NI), leaving all burnt trees standing; and (3) ""cut plus lopping"" (CL), a treatment where burnt trees were felled, with the main branches lopped off, but left in situ partially covering the ground surface. Seasonal measurements were carried out over the course of two years. In addition, we performed continuous diurnal campaigns and an irrigation experiment to ascertain the roles of soil temperature and moisture in determining CO2 fluxes across treatments. Soil CO2 fluxes were highest in CL (average of 3.34 +/- 0.191 mu mol m(-2) s(-1)) and the lowest in SL (2.21 +/- 0.11 mu mol m(-2) s(-1)). Across seasons, basal values were registered during summer (average of 1.46 +/- 0.04 mu mol m(-2) s(-1)), but increased during the humid seasons (up to 10.07 +/- 1.08 mu mol m(-2) s(-1) in spring in CL). Seasonal and treatment patterns were consistent at the two elevations (1477 and 2317 m a.s.l.), although respiration was half as high at the higher altitude. Respiration was mainly controlled by soil moisture. Watering during the summer drought boosted CO2 effluxes (up to 37 +/- 6 mu mol m(-2) s(-1) just after water addition), which then decreased to basal values as the soil dried. About 64% of CO2 emissions during the first 24 h could be attributed to the degasification of soil pores, with the rest likely related to biological processes. The patterns of CO2 effluxes under experimental watering were similar to the seasonal tendencies, with the highest pulse in CL Temperature, however, had a weak effect on soil respiration, with Q(10) values of ca. 1 across seasons and soil moisture conditions. These results represent a first step towards illustrating the effects of post-fire burnt wood management on soil respiration, and eventually carbon sequestration. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0378-1127	 	"[Maranon-Jimenez, S.; Castro, J.; Zamora, R.] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Fac Ciencias, Grp Ecol Terr, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Kowalski, A. S.; Reverter, B. R.] Univ Granada, Dept Fis Aplicada, Fac Ciencias, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Maranon-Jimenez, S.; Castro, J.; Kowalski, A. S.; Reverter, B. R.; Sanchez-Canete, E. P.; Zamora, R.] CEAMA, E-18006 Granada, Spain. [Serrano-Ortiz, P.; Sanchez-Canete, E. P.] CSIC, Estn Expt Zonas Aridas, E-04120 Almeria, Spain.; Maranon-Jimenez, S (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Fac Ciencias, Grp Ecol Terr, Av Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; smaranon@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.foreco.2011.01.030	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Maranon-Jimenez,Sara;Castro,Jorge;Ignacio Querejeta,Jose;Fernandez-Ondono,Emilia;Allen,Craig D."	Post-fire wood management alters water stress, growth, and performance of pine regeneration in a Mediterranean ecosystem	Forest Ecology and Management	For.Ecol.Manage.	2013	Nov-15	308	 	231	239	"Burnt wood;Facilitation;Nurse structures;Pinus pinaster;Post-fire restoration;Salvage harvesting;OXYGEN-ISOTOPE COMPOSITION;PINYON-JUNIPER WOODLANDS;NURSE PLANTS;STOMATAL CONDUCTANCE;HIGH-TEMPERATURES;AIR TEMPERATURES;TREE;MORTALITY;PINASTER AIT.;STABLE OXYGEN;NW SPAIN;Forestry ER"	"Extensive research has focused on comparing the impacts of post-fire salvage logging versus those of less aggressive management practices on forest regeneration. However, few studies have addressed the effects of different burnt-wood management options on seedling/sapling performance, or the ecophysiological mechanisms underlying differences among treatments. In this study, we experimentally assess the effects of post-fire management of the burnt wood on the growth and performance of naturally regenerating pine seedlings (Pinus pinaster). Three post-fire management treatments varying in degree of intervention were implemented seven months after a high-severity wildfire burned Mediterranean pine forests in the Sierra Nevada, southeast Spain: (a) ""No Intervention"" (NI, all burnt trees left standing); (b) ""Partial Cut plus Lopping"" (PCL, felling most of the burnt trees, cutting off branches, and leaving all the biomass on site without mastication); and (c) ""Salvage Logging"" (SL, felling the burnt trees, piling up the logs and masticating the fine woody debris). Three years after the fire, the growth, foliar nutrient concentrations, and leaf carbon, nitrogen and oxygen isotopic composition (delta C-13, delta O-18 and delta N-15) of naturally regenerating seedlings were measured in all the treatments. Pine seedlings showed greatest vigor and size in the PCL treatment, whereas growth was poorest in SL. The nutrient concentrations were similar among treatments, although greater growth in the two treatments with residual wood present indicated higher plant uptake. Seedlings in the SL treatment showed high leaf delta C-13 and delta O-18 values indicating severe water stress, in contrast to significantly alleviated water stress indications in the PCL treatment. Seedling growth and physiological performance in NI was intermediate between that of PCL and SL After six growing seasons, P. pinaster saplings in PCL showed greater growth and cone production than SL saplings. In summary, salvage logging has a detrimental effect on the ecophysiological performance and growth of naturally regenerating pine seedlings, compared to alternative post-fire management practices in which burnt logs and branches are left in situ. Improved seedling growth and performance is associated with the amelioration of microsite/microclimate conditions by the presence of residual burnt wood, which alleviates seedling drought stress and improves nutrient availability through the decomposition of woody debris. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0378-1127	 	"[Maranon-Jimenez, Sara; Castro, Jorge] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Maranon-Jimenez, Sara] Helmholtz Zentrum Umweltforsch GmbH UFZ, Dept Hydrosyst Modellierung, D-04318 Leipzig, Germany. [Ignacio Querejeta, Jose] CSIC, CEBAS, E-30100 Murcia, Spain. [Fernandez-Ondono, Emilia] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Edafol & Quim Agr, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Allen, Craig D.] US Geol Survey, Ft Collins Sci Ctr, Jemez Mt Field Stn, Los Alamos, NM 87544 USA.; Maranon-Jimenez, S (reprint author), Helmholtz Zentrum Umweltforsch GmbH UFZ, Dept Hydrosyst Modellierung, Permoserstr 15, D-04318 Leipzig, Germany.; sara.maranon@ufz.de"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.foreco.2013.07.009	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Maria Conde-Porcuna,Jose;Ramos-Rodriguez,Eloisa;Perez-Martinez,Carmen"	In situ production of empty ephippia and resting eggs by an obligate parthenogenetic Daphnia population	Journal of Plankton Research	J.Plankton Res.	2014	JAN-FEB	36	1	157	169	"Daphnia pulicaria;dormancy;ephippia;ephippial eggs;epibionts;FRESH-WATER ZOOPLANKTON;SEXUAL REPRODUCTION;ALGAL EPIBIONT;DYNAMICS;PULEX;SEDIMENT;MAGNA;FOOD;LAKE;RESUSPENSION;Marine & Freshwater Biology;Oceanography ER"	We directly analyzed the in situ production of ephippia and ephippial eggs by an obligate parthenogen Daphnia pulicaria population in a high-mountain lake by using sediment traps during the ice-free period. We recorded the number of eggs per ephippium collected in the traps and studied the zooplankton and phytoplankton communities as well as the nutrient conditions in the lake. Ephippia production was negatively correlated with the light phase of the photoperiod. Numerous empty ephippia were produced, and their number was negatively correlated with the epibiont burden of the chlorophyte Korshikoviella gracilipes on Daphnia. The number of healthy eggs per ephippium in the sediment traps was related to the edible phytoplankton biomass and/or epibiont burden. The proportion of empty ephippia was negatively related to the epibiont burden. These results suggest that the onset and rate of ephippia production is related to the photoperiod, and that the production of ephippial eggs per ephippium increases with greater food availability (phytoplankton biomass and/or epibiont burden). This is the first published evidence that food availability may favour resting egg reproduction under photoperiod conditions that trigger ephippia production.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0142-7873	 	"[Maria Conde-Porcuna, Jose; Ramos-Rodriguez, Eloisa; Perez-Martinez, Carmen] Univ Granada, Inst Water Res, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Maria Conde-Porcuna, Jose; Ramos-Rodriguez, Eloisa; Perez-Martinez, Carmen] Fac Sci, Dept Ecol, Granada 18071, Spain.; Conde-Porcuna, JM (reprint author), Univ Granada, Inst Water Res, Ramon & Cajal 4, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jmconde@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1093/plankt/fbt072	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Marques,Susete;Garcia-Gonzalo,Jordi;Borges,Jose G.;Botequim,Brigite;Manuela Oliveira,M.;Tome,Jose;Tome,Margarida"	Developing Post-Fire Eucalyptus globulus Stand Damage and Tree Mortality Models for Enhanced Forest Planning in Portugal	Silva Fennica	Silva Fenn.	2011	 	45	1	69	83	"forest fires;forest management;Eucalyptus globulus Labill;damage model;post-fire mortality;CATALONIA NORTHEAST;NORTHWESTERN SPAIN;PRESCRIBED FIRE;SIERRA-NEVADA;PLANTATIONS;MANAGEMENT;RISK;SIMULATION;SEVERITY;WILDFIRE;Forestry ER"	Forest and fire management planning activities are carried out mostly independently of each other. This paper discusses research aiming at the development of methods and tools that can be used for enhanced integration of forest and fire management planning activities. Specifically, fire damage models were developed for Eucalyptus globulus Labill stands in Portugal. Models are based on easily measurable forest characteristics so that forest managers may predict post-fire mortality based on forest structure. For this purpose, biometric data and fire-damage descriptors from 2005/2006 National Forest Inventory plots and other sample plots within 2006, 2007 and 2008 fire areas were used. A three-step modelling strategy based on logistic regression methods was used. In the first step, a model was developed to predict whether mortality occurs after a wildfire in a eucalypt stand. In the second step the degree of damage caused by wildfires in stands where mortality occurs is quantified (i.e. percentage of mortality). In the third step this mortality is distributed among trees. Data from over 85 plots and 1648 trees were used for modeling purposes. The damage models show that relative damage increases with stand basal area. Tree level mortality models indicate that trees with high diameters, in dominant positions and located in regular stands are less prone to die when a wildfire occurs.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0037-5330	 	"[Marques, Susete; Garcia-Gonzalo, Jordi; Borges, Jose G.; Botequim, Brigite; Manuela Oliveira, M.; Tome, Jose; Tome, Margarida] Univ Tecn Lisboa, Sch Agr, Forest Res Ctr, P-1349017 Lisbon, Portugal.; Marques, S (reprint author), Univ Tecn Lisboa, Sch Agr, Forest Res Ctr, P-1349017 Lisbon, Portugal.; smarques@isa.utl.pt"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.14214/sf.32	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Marquez,F. J.	Rickettsiae in ticks from wild ungulates of Sierra Nevada and Donana national parks (Spain)	Clinical Microbiology and Infection	 	2009	DEC	15	 	227	229	"Infectious Diseases;Microbiology ER"	 	"PT: J; SU: 2"	 		 	 	 	 				 	1198-743X	 	"Univ Jaen, Dpto Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Jaen 23071, Spain.; Marquez, FJ (reprint author), Univ Jaen, Dpto Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Campus Lagunillas S-N, Jaen 23071, Spain.; jmarquez@ujaen.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/j.1469-0691.2008.02148.x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Martin,Rocio;Prieto,Carlos E."	A new orophilous species of the genus Dasylobus (Opiliones: Phalangiidae) from Sierra Nevada, Spain	Journal of Arachnology	J.Arachnol.	2010	 	38	1	113	118	"Iberian Peninsula;Phalangiinae;new species;taxonomy;Europe;Entomology ER"	"A new species, Dasylobus nevadensis, is described; it inhabits high areas of the Sierra Nevada, the highest mountain chain in Spanish mainland. The new species is smaller than all other Iberian Dasylobus species and has short, annulated legs, light silver coloration, and is juvenile-like. Together with Roeweritta carpentieri (Roewer 1953), this is an orophilous endemic species from Sierra Nevada."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0161-8202	 	"[Martin, Rocio; Prieto, Carlos E.] Univ Basque Country, Dept Zool & Biol Celular, Lab Aracnol & Malacol, E-48080 Bilbao, Spain.; Prieto, CE (reprint author), Univ Basque Country, Dept Zool & Biol Celular, Lab Aracnol & Malacol, Apdo 644, E-48080 Bilbao, Spain.; carlos_prieto@ehu.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Martinez-Martinez,J. M.;Torres-Ruiz,J.;Pesquera,A.;Gil-Crespo,P. P."	Geological relationships and U-Pb zircon and Ar-40/Ar-39 tourmaline geochronology of gneisses and tourmalinites from the Nevado-Filabride complex (western Sierra Nevada, Spain): Tectonic implications	Lithos	Lithos	2010	OCT	119	03-Apr	238	250	"Betic hinterland;Nevado-Filabride complex;Gneisses;Tourmaline;Zircon;U-Pb geochronology;Ar/Ar geochronology;Nappe tectonics;BORON ISOTOPIC COMPOSITION;ION MASS-SPECTROMETRY;CORDILLERAS SE SPAIN;BETIC CORDILLERAS;SOUTHERN SPAIN;ALPUJARRIDE COMPLEX;METAMORPHIC;ROCKS;ALBORAN DOMAIN;GIBRALTAR ARC;HIGH-PRESSURE;Geochemistry & Geophysics;Mineralogy ER"	"The Nevado-Filabride complex, the lowest complex in the Betic hinterland, forms a stack of Alpine nappes. The tectonic units consist of metasedimentary sequences whose ages are not well constrained. Gneiss bodies included in the sequences have been one of the few sources of geochronological data in this metamorphic complex. New radiometric data from U-Pb zircon dating on gneisses from the western Sierra Nevada confirm the presence of late Carboniferous intrusive rocks in the Betic hinterland. These results, combined with available data from the literature and a detailed structural analysis, suggest that the gneisses represent a single late Variscan magmatic event. Evidence for a close genetic relation between gneisses and tourmalinites is provided by field and petrographic observations, in conjunction with geochemical data, U-Pb zircon (314 +/- 7: 304 +/- 23 Ma) and Ar-40/Ar-39 tourmaline (319.85 +/- 5.81; 317.85 +/- 3.67 Ma) geochronology. A pre-late Carboniferous age for the basal formation of the Nevado-Filabride sequence can be inferred. The gneiss protolith and the graphite schist are considered to be the boron source and the precursor of the tourmalinites, respectively. Superposed tectonic units rather than a continuous Palaeozoic sequence is supported by the occurrence of Palaeozoic rocks at the top of the Nevado-Filabride complex. The nappe tectonics, as evidenced from the contractional character of the unit boundaries and the superposition of higher-grade on lower-grade metamorphic rocks, is additionally supported by the superposition of older on younger rocks as revealed from radiometric data. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0024-4937	 	"[Martinez-Martinez, J. M.] Univ Granada, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra, CSIC, E-18002 Granada, Spain. [Martinez-Martinez, J. M.] Univ Granada, Dept Geodinam, CSIC, E-18002 Granada, Spain. [Torres-Ruiz, J.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Mineral & Petrol, E-18002 Granada, Spain. [Pesquera, A.; Gil-Crespo, P. P.] Univ Basque Country, Dept Mineral & Petrol, E-48080 Bilbao, Spain.; Martinez-Martinez, JM (reprint author), Univ Granada, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra, CSIC, Avda Fuentenueva S-N, E-18002 Granada, Spain.; jmmm@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.lithos.2010.07.002	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Martin-Garcia,J. M.;Marquez,R.;Delgado,G.;Sanchez-Maranon,M.;Delgado,R."	Relationships between quartz weathering and soil type (Entisol, Inceptisol and Alfisol) in Sierra Nevada (southeast Spain)	European Journal of Soil Science	Eur.J.Soil Sci.	2015	JAN	66	1	179	193	"ELECTRON-MICROPROBE;MASS-SPECTROMETRY;LOW-TEMPERATURES;TROPICAL;SOILS;RED SOILS;DISSOLUTION;GRAINS;CATHODOLUMINESCENCE;CHRONOSEQUENCE;MICROSCOPY;Agriculture ER"	Quartz was studied in a soil development sequence of Entisol-Inceptisol-Alfisol in a Mediterranean mountain climate on a metamorphic quartz-rich substrate, using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) and backscattered electron (BSE) and electron microprobes (EMP), with fine sand (250-50 mu m) as the selected particle-size fraction. The quartz in the soil is inherited mainly from the parent rock. However, a study of the surface characteristics of the quartz grains and measurement of non-Si elements (Al3+, Ti4+, Fe3+, Na+, K+, Mg2+ and Ca2+), both near-edge and in the centre of grains, showed that the quartz is altered substantially in the progression parent rock < Entisol < Inceptisol < Alfisol, and in the A, AC and Bt horizons rather than in the C horizon. In all profiles and horizons the content of non-Si elements was greater in the near-edge zones than in the centre of the grain. This pedochemical process thus operates mainly at the surface of the grain and results in a variety of pits, fissures and other corrosion features (hole or corrosion gulf, opening of inter-granular surfaces, areal alteration, smoothing of edges of conchoidal fractures, and deepening of incisions of conchoidal fractures). Estimation of the W index, which assesses the intensity of the weathering process from the size and density of the etch pits, revealed that many of the quartz grains had alterations somewhat similar to the quartzes of tropical soils. This study casts doubt on the paradigm of quartz inalterability in soils of little to medium pedological change in temperate zones.	"PT: J; SI: SI"	 		 	 	 	 				 	1351-0754	 	"[Martin-Garcia, J. M.; Delgado, G.; Sanchez-Maranon, M.; Delgado, R.] Univ Granada, Fac Farm, Dept Edafol & Quim Agr, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Marquez, R.] Univ Granada, Fac Farm, Ctr Instrumentac Cient, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Martin-Garcia, JM (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Farm, Dept Edafol & Quim Agr, Campus Univ Cartuja, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jmmartingarcia@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/ejss.12214	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Martin-Ruiz,Susana;Aceituno,Francisco J.;Gutierrez Soto,Juan"	Setting up the T35 Telescope at Sierra Nevada Observatory for Detecting Variable Stars in Open Clusters	Star Clusters in the Era of Large Surveys: Proceedings of Symposium 5 of Jenam 2010	 	2012	 	 	 	261	262	Astronomy & Astrophysics ER	The T35 is a 14 '' telescope installed at the Sierra Nevada Observatory (Granada, Spain). This telescope is equipped with a large format CCD camera for detecting AF-type pulsating stars in the open clusters. In order to test the accuracy of V measurements obtained with T35, we observed one of the target variable stars using the uvby photometer at the 90-cm telescope. Here, we compare the light curves obtained in both photometries.	PT: S	 	Moitinho,A. Alves,J.	Astrophysics and Space Science Proceedings	 	 	 				 	"1570-6591; 978-3-642-22113-2"	 	"[Martin-Ruiz, Susana; Aceituno, Francisco J.; Gutierrez Soto, Juan] CSIC, Inst Astrofis Andalucia, E-18008 Granada, Spain.; Martin-Ruiz, S (reprint author), CSIC, Inst Astrofis Andalucia, Glorieta Astron S-N, E-18008 Granada, Spain.; susana@iaa.es; fja@iaa.es; jgs@iaa.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/978-3-642-22113-2_49	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Martin-Vivaldi,Manuel;Jose Soler,Juan;Moller,Anders Pape;Perez-Contreras,Tomas;Soler,Manuel"	The importance of nest-site and habitat in egg recognition ability of potential hosts of the Common Cuckoo Cuculus canorus	Ibis	Ibis	2013	JAN	155	1	140	155	"brood parasitism;coevolution;egg mimicry;host communities;host defences;ground-nesting;REDSTART PHOENICURUS-PHOENICURUS;WARBLERS ACROCEPHALUS-PALUSTRIS;INTRASPECIFIC BROOD PARASITISM;LIFE-HISTORY EVOLUTION;REED WARBLERS;REJECTION BEHAVIOR;EUROPEAN CUCKOO;ARMS-RACE;REFLECTANCE;SPECTROPHOTOMETRY;COEVOLUTIONARY INTERACTIONS;Zoology ER"	The intensity of selection exerted by brood parasites on their hosts depends on the proportion of nests that are parasitized and the fitness costs of parasitism. Nest detection by brood parasites influences the probability of parasitism, and we propose that the difficulty faced by brood parasites of finding nests on the ground may make ground-nesting species subject to lower levels of parasitism, causing a reduction in levels of defence compared with species breeding in shrubs, trees and elsewhere above the ground. We tested the prediction that the rejection rate of Common Cuckoo Cuculus canorus eggs by hosts is inversely related to the frequency with which they build nests on the ground, both at local and at continental scales. First, we used estimates of the rejection rate of non-mimetic model eggs experimentally introduced into the nests of 26 potential host species breeding in the Sierra Nevada Mountains of southern Spain. Most species tested in the Sierra Nevada showed high rejection rates of both mimetic and non-mimetic eggs, whereas the European Robin Erithacus rubecula, with a low rejection rate, was the only species that was regularly parasitized. At the continental scale we used all available published information on rejection rates of non-mimetic models by European hosts of the Common Cuckoo. The frequency of ground-nesting explained interspecific variation in rejection rate of non-mimetic model eggs both for the species tested in the Sierra Nevada and for all European hosts after controlling for all other life-history variables known to affect rejection rates. An effect of the abundance of trees in a particular habitat, previously shown to affect parasitism by the Common Cuckoo, was only apparent from analyses of continental-scale data and not from the Sierra Nevada mountains, suggesting that particular properties of mountainous areas affect Common Cuckoo parasitism. Ground-nesting species showed lower rejection rates than species breeding in bushes or trees. These results suggest that species nesting on the ground may have suffered lower parasitism pressures in their historical coevolutionary interactions with the Common Cuckoo.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0019-1019	 	"[Martin-Vivaldi, Manuel; Perez-Contreras, Tomas; Soler, Manuel] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, Granada, Spain. [Martin-Vivaldi, Manuel; Jose Soler, Juan; Perez-Contreras, Tomas; Soler, Manuel] Univ Granada, Grp Coevoluc, Unidad Asociada CSIC, Granada, Spain. [Jose Soler, Juan] CSIC, Estn Expt Zonas Aridas, Almeria, Spain. [Moller, Anders Pape] Univ Paris 11, CNRS, Lab Ecol Systemat & Evolut, UMR 8079, F-91405 Orsay, France.; Martin-Vivaldi, M (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, Granada, Spain.; mmv@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/ibi.12000	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Matias,Luis;Mendoza,Irene;Zamora,Regino"	Consistent pattern of habitat and species selection by post-dispersal seed predators in a Mediterranean mosaic landscape	Plant Ecology	Plant Ecol.	2009	JUL	203	1	137	147	"Degraded habitats;Field experiment;Land use change;Logistic regression;Predator preference;Sierra Nevada;NEOTROPICAL RAIN-FOREST;BIRD-DISPERSED TREES;SMALL MAMMALS;QUERCUS-ILEX;DECIDUOUS WOODLAND;SPATIAL VARIATION;WOODY-PLANTS;OLD;FIELDS;RECRUITMENT;ESTABLISHMENT;Plant Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Forestry ER"	"There is still little information on effects of habitat degradation on post-dispersal seed predation at the landscape scale. The aim of this study was to determine the influence of habitat degradation and seed species on the variability of post-dispersal seed-predation rate. Experimental seed removal was investigated in six Mediterranean woody plant species, four trees (Pinus sylvestris, Quercus ilex, Acer opalus ssp. granatense, and Sorbus aria) and two shrubs (Berberis vulgaris and Crataegus monogyna), in an extensively used mosaic landscape on the Sierra Nevada massif (SE Spain). Seed depots were distributed over 2 years in five differently degraded landscape units, each one with three plots: shrubland; native forest; and dense, cleared and fenced reforestation stands. Predation was the highest in native forest, shrubland, and fenced reforestation, and the lowest in dense and cleared reforestation stands, being partially due to a positive correlation between shrub cover and post-dispersal seed predation. However, the main factors driving post-dispersal seed predation were intrinsic to seeds, as species preference explained most of the variance in our model for predation. The plant-species ranking was Quercus > Pinus > Sorbus > Berberis > Acer > Crataegus, the dominant tree species being the most depredated. These findings are novel because they suggest for the first time that species-selection patterns by post-dispersal seed predators tended to remain constant through both study years in all habitats comprising a mosaic landscape, whether native forest, reforestation stands or successional shrubland."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1385-0237	 	"[Matias, Luis; Mendoza, Irene; Zamora, Regino] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Terr Ecol Res Grp, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Mendoza, Irene] Univ Aleppo, Fac Agr, Dept Forestry, Aleppo, Syria.; Matias, L (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Terr Ecol Res Grp, Av Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; lmatias@ugr.es; imendoza@ugr.es; rzamora@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s11258-008-9518-7	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Matias,Luis;Zamora,Regino;Mendoza,Irene;Hodar,Jose A."	Seed Dispersal Patterns by Large Frugivorous Mammals in a Degraded Mosaic Landscape	Restoration Ecology	Restor.Ecol.	2010	SEP	18	5	619	627	"Mediterranean habitats;Red fox;seed dispersal;seed viability;Sierra Nevada;Stone marten;Wild boar;FOX VULPES-VULPES;TROPICAL;FORESTS;MARTES-FOINA;ECOLOGY;GERMINATION;REGENERATION;VARIANCE;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Seed dispersal by Red fox (Vulpes vulpes), Stone marten (Martes foina), and Wild boar (Sus scrofa) was analyzed in an extensively degraded mosaic landscape in Sierra Nevada (SE Spain). The main objective was to determine whether seed dispersal by mammals was related to habitat degradation within a mosaic of adjacent degraded patches mixed with native forest and thereby to determine the potential role of mammals as seed dispersers in degraded landscape units. For three consecutive years, mammal feces were collected in the fruit production period, extracting all seeds of woody species found therein and analyzing their viability. Feces were collected in three different plots for each of five different landscape units: shrubland, native forest, and dense, cleared, and fenced reforestation stands. Seeds from 16 woody species (which represent more than a half of the total fleshy-fruited woody species available) were recorded, although some agrarian species are also introduced in a low percentage of the scats. Seeds showed a high viability rate for all dispersed species, irrespective of the mammal disperser. No differences in species composition appeared in the overall landscape units or in the seed density between degraded habitats. Due to the small patch size, the high viability of dispersed seeds, and the large home range of the large mammals, these three animal species act as efficient seed dispersers for a diverse assemblage of woody plant species regardless of the habitat type within this degradation framework. This fact has important consequences for the biodiversity recuperation in these degraded habitats, principally in pine plantations.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1061-2971	 	"[Matias, Luis; Zamora, Regino; Mendoza, Irene; Hodar, Jose A.] Univ Granada, Grp Ecol Terr, Dept Ecol, Fac Ciencias, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Mendoza, Irene] Univ Aleppo, Fac Agr, Dept Forestry & Ecol, Aleppo, Syria.; Matias, L (reprint author), Univ Granada, Grp Ecol Terr, Dept Ecol, Fac Ciencias, Av Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; lmatias@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/j.1526-100X.2008.00475.x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Mayoral,Jaime G.;Barranco,Pablo"	A new genus and species of larval mite (Acari: Prostigmata: Microtrombidiidae) parasitising Orthoptera (Tettigoniidae) from the Sierra Nevada, Spain	Systematic parasitology	Syst.Parasitol.	2012	SEP	83	1	77	84	Parasitology ER	Nevada capileirarum n. g., n. sp. (Acari: Microtrombidiidae: Microtrombidiinae) is described from ectoparasitic larvae parasitising two endemic species of Orthoptera (Tettigoniidae), Baetica ustulata (Rambur) and Pycnogaster inermis (Rambur) from the Sierra Nevada mountain range, Granada, Spain. A key to the larvae of microtrombidiine genera with three dorsal scuta and a coxal setal formula of 2-1-1 is presented.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0165-5752	 	"[Mayoral, Jaime G.; Barranco, Pablo] Univ Almeria, CITE II B, Dept Biol Aplicada, Almeria 04120, Spain.; Mayoral, JG (reprint author), Univ Almeria, CITE II B, Dept Biol Aplicada, Almeria 04120, Spain.; jgmayoral@hotmail.com; pbvega@ual.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s11230-012-9370-y	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Mendoza,Irene;Gomez-Aparicio,Lorena;Zamora,Regino;Matias,Luis"	Recruitment limitation of forest communities in a degraded Mediterranean landscape	Journal of Vegetation Science	 	2009	APR	20	2	367	376	"Acer opalus subsp;granatense;Land-use change;Pinus sylvestris;Regeneration dynamics;Seed dispersal;Sorbus aria;Taxus baccata;LONG-DISTANCE DISPERSAL;SPATIAL-PATTERNS;PLANT-POPULATIONS;TROPICAL FOREST;REGENERATION;TREE;ESTABLISHMENT;SUCCESSION;MICROSITE;Plant Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Forestry ER"	How does habitat degradation affect recruitment limitation and its components (seed limitation versus establishment limitation) of woody plant communities in a Mediterranean landscape? 1600-1900 m a.s.l. in the Sierra Nevada National Park, southern Spain. The landscape is a mosaic composed of native forest and two degraded landscape units: reforestation stands and shrubland. We evaluated fruit production, seed rain, seedling emergence and seedling survival in two consecutive years with contrasting rainfall patterns. Seed and seedling data were used to calculate values of seed and establishment limitation. In general, the woody community was both severely seed- and establishment-limited. Species were less seed-limited in the landscape units with higher adult density (i.e. shrub species in shrubland, Pinus spp. in reforestation stands). In contrast, degradation did not exacerbate establishment limitation, which was severe in all landscape units. This general pattern was modulated by the biogeographical distribution, dispersal type, and life form of the species. Boreo-alpine species were more limited in establishment than species with a typical Mediterranean distribution. Zoochorous species were less seed-limited in the landscape units preferred by dispersers (i.e. native forest). Tree species were more establishment-limited than shrub species, irrespective of the landscape unit. Seed limitation, and especially establishment limitation, varied among years, with establishment being almost nil in the very dry year. In the case of Mediterranean landscapes, when degradation from human impact involves a reduction in the adult abundance of the woody plant community (trees and shrubs), seed limitation increases, although establishment limitation is generally high in all landscape units, especially for boreo-alpine species. Conservation and restoration strategies should take into account our results showing that tree species were unable to recruit in an extremely dry year, because more aridity is expected under a climatic change scenario in Mediterranean ecosystems.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1100-9233	 	"[Mendoza, Irene; Zamora, Regino; Matias, Luis] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Terr Ecol Res Grp, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Gomez-Aparicio, Lorena] CSIC, Inst Recursos Nat & Agrobiol IRNASE, E-41080 Seville, Spain.; Mendoza, I (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Terr Ecol Res Grp, Av Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; imendoza@ugr.es; lorenag@irnase.csic.es; rzamora@ugr.es; lmatias@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/j.1654-1103.2009.05705.x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Mendoza,Irene;Zamora,Regino;Castro,Jorge"	A seeding experiment for testing tree-community recruitment under variable environments: Implications for forest regeneration and conservation in Mediterranean habitats	Biological Conservation	Biol.Conserv.	2009	JUL	142	7	1491	1499	"Species coexistence;Summer drought;Differential recruitment;Successional habitats;Sierra Nevada (S Spain);Experimental field seeding;Global change;TAXUS-BACCATA L;SEEDLING ESTABLISHMENT;PINUS-SYLVESTRIS;NURSE PLANTS;ECOLOGICAL FILTER;SPECIES RICHNESS;FERN UNDERSTORY;GLACIAL REFUGIA;FACILITATION;CLIMATE;Biodiversity & Conservation;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	As a result of historical and ecological factors, woody-plant communities are composed of species with different biogeographic origins that presumably diverge in their ability to recruit under variable environments. The aim of this study is to evaluate the conservation implications of the differences in recruitment of six tree species of different biogeographical origin coexisting in a Mediterranean mountain forest. Under field conditions, we experimentally sowed a total of 16,650 seeds belonging to two Mediterranean (Quercus ilex and Q. pyrenaica), two Sub-Mediterranean (Acer opalus subsp. granatense and Sorbus aria), and two boreo-alpine (Pinus sylvestris and Taxus baccata) species. We selected the three most common successional scenarios where seeds are dispersed (woodland, shrubland, and open areas), and half of the seeds were irrigated simulating a rainy summer in terms of Mediterranean ecosystems. Seedling survival was strongly affected by the type of habitat as well as irrigation. The recruitment of the six species was possible only in wooded areas under wet conditions (20-60%). In shrubland, only Mediterranean and Sub-Mediterranean species recruited in typical dry years (10-50%), but irrigation increased their survival (25-65%) and allowed P. sylvestris to recruit (32%). Open areas constituted the most adverse scenario for seedling recruitment, especially for non-watered seedlings (0% for boreo-alpine species, 1-24% for the rest). Overall, the benefit of a wet summer was more critical for the recruitment of boreo-alpine species (P. sylvestris and T. baccata) than for the rest, although a rainy summer is also necessary for the recruitment of A. granatense and S. aria in shrubland habitats. Our experimental results indicate that the maintenance of current species composition in Mediterranean mountain forests is critically dependent on the periodic, scattered occurrence of wet summers. From a conservational standpoint, the predictions of less rainy summers and greater aridity in the future imply a change in the relative abundance of species in the mature forest, with Mediterranean species becoming dominant and boreo-alpine species becoming even rarer and, consequently, a serious threat for the persistence of boreo-alpine species at their southern distribution limit. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0006-3207	 	"[Mendoza, Irene; Zamora, Regino; Castro, Jorge] Univ Granada, Terr Ecol Res Grp, Dept Ecol, Fac Ciencias, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Mendoza, I (reprint author), Univ Aleppo, Fac Agr, Dept Forestry & Ecol, Aleppo, Syria.; imendoza@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.biocon.2009.02.018	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Menendez,Rosa;Gonzalez-Megias,Adela;Jay-Robert,Pierre;Marquez-Ferrando,Rocio"	Climate change and elevational range shifts: evidence from dung beetles in two European mountain ranges	Global Ecology and Biogeography	Global Ecol.Biogeogr.	2014	JUN	23	6	646	657	"south-western Alps;range shifts;Climate change;Sierra Nevada;elevational gradients;dung beetles;SCARABAEOIDEA COL COMMUNITIES;SPECIES RICHNESS DISTRIBUTION;BAITED;PITFALL TRAPS;NATURAL REFORESTATION;BIOTIC INTERACTIONS;ALPINE PLANT;COLEOPTERA;HABITAT;SCARABAEINAE;DIVERSITY;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Physical Geography ER"	Aim Mountain regions are particularly well-suited for investigating the impact of climate change on species ranges because they encompass both upper and lower limits of species distribution. Here, we investigate changes in the elevational distribution of dung beetle species (Coleoptera: Scarabaeoidea) in two separate mountain regions in Europe. Location South-western Alps (France) and Sierra Nevada (Spain). Methods We compared historical and current data on dung beetle distributions along elevation gradients for 30 species in the SW Alps and 19 species in the Sierra Nevada. We tested for significant changes between survey periods in three parameters: mean elevation and upper and lower range limits. Results We found up-slope range shifts for 63% and 90% of the species in the SW Alps and Sierra Nevada, respectively. Up-slope range shifts resulted mainly from expansion of upper range limits in the SW Alps and from changes of both range limits in the Sierra Nevada. The magnitudes of range shifts were consistent with the level of warming experienced in each region, but they also reflected the asymmetrical warming observed along the elevation gradients. Smaller changes were observed for species reaching their historical range limits at the higher elevations, associated with a non-significant increase in temperature between periods. Main conclusions The differences observed between regions are related to the geographical position of each mountain range, which determines the characteristics (including thermal tolerance) of the regional species pool, and the level of warming, which determines whether maximum thermal tolerance has been exceeded for the majority of species in the region. Our results highlight the importance of considering both the biogeography of the mountain and the species pool under study when assessing the sensitivity of species to future climate change in mountain regions.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1466-822X	 	"[Menendez, Rosa] Univ Lancaster, Lancaster Environm Ctr, Lancaster LA1 4YQ, England. [Gonzalez-Megias, Adela] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Jay-Robert, Pierre] Univ Montpellier 3, Dept Dynam & Gouvernance Syst Ecol, CNRS, UMR 5175,CEFE, F-34199 Montpellier 5, France. [Marquez-Ferrando, Rocio] CSIC, Dept Wetland Ecol, Estn Biol Donana, Seville 41092, Spain.; Menendez, R (reprint author), Univ Lancaster, Lancaster Environm Ctr LEC 1, Lancaster LA1 4YQ, Lancs, England.; r.menendez@lancaster.ac.uk"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/geb.12142	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Metcalf,James R.;Fitzgerald,Paul G.;Baldwin,Suzanne L.;Munoz,Josep-Anton"	Thermochronology of a convergent orogen: Constraints on the timing of thrust faulting and subsequent exhumation of the Maladeta Pluton in the Central Pyrenean Axial Zone	Earth and Planetary Science Letters	Earth Planet.Sci.Lett.	2009	Oct-15	287	03-Apr	488	503	"Pyrenees;thermochronology;thrust faults;exhumation;multi-diffusion domain modeling;fission track;(U-Th)/He;TRACK ANNEALING KINETICS;FISSION-TRACK;K-FELDSPAR;SYSTEMATIC;ANALYSIS;TECTONIC EVOLUTION;(U-TH)/HE AGES;SIERRA-NEVADA;APATITE;DIFFUSION;TOPOGRAPHY;Geochemistry & Geophysics ER"	The Pyrenees Mountains of Spain and France are a collisional orogen cored by a south-vergent antiformal stack of Paleozoic basement thrust sheets (the Axial Zone). Thrusting accommodated shortening due to convergence between Iberia and Europe. Granitic plutons, intruded during the Hercynian orogeny, form an important component of the basement units. Thermochronology of granodioritic samples collected from a vertical [age-elevation] profile from the south-central Maladeta pluton provide new constraints on the timing of thrust faulting and rock exhumation of the Pyrenean orogen. The Maladeta massif lies within the Orri thrust sheet, presently occupying the immediate footwall of the Gavarnie thrust, a major Axial Zone Alpine-age thrust fault. New biotite and K-feldspar (40)Ar/(39)Ar and apatite (U-Th)/He (AHe) data combined with previous apatite fission track (AFT) thermochronology and structural studies of the Maladeta pluton constrain the thermal evolution of this massif. Biotite weighted mean plateau and K-feldspar maxi MUM (40)Ar/(39)Ar ages from the highest elevations of the Maladeta pluton (2850 m) are similar to 280 Ma, close to the age of intrusion, and are interpreted to date the timing of rapid cooling in the Hercynian. Subsequently the Maladeta Massif remained close to the surface as indicated by the presence of unconformable Triassic continental sediments. K-feldspar (40)Ar/(39)Ar multiple diffusion domain thermal models from two samples at lower elevations (1780 m and 1400 m) indicate heating initiated at similar to 65 Ma, reaching maximum temperatures of 270 to 280 degrees C. These data are interpreted to record thrust burial of the Maladeta pluton to depths of similar to 6-10 km in the footwall of the Gavarnie thrust. Burial and heating were followed by a period of relatively rapid cooling beginning at similar to 50 Ma, recorded in three K-feldspar thermal models from samples at different elevations (2850 m, 1780 m, and 1400 m). AFT thermal models, in conjunction with the AFT and apatite AHe age-elevation profile interpretation reveal a lower temperature portion of the thermal history. These data indicate the onset of rapid cooling that began at 30-35 Ma, slowed dramatically at 25-30 Ma. and continued at a reduced rate until similar to 15 Ma. Finally, AFT thermal models from the lowest elevation samples record rapid cooling in the Late Miocene-Pliocene, most likely due to re-excavation of the southern flank of the Pyrenean orogen, following burial by syn-tectonic conglomerates. The integrated thermochronologic data set from the age-elevation profile within the Maladeta pluton illustrates the potential for obtaining age constraints related to processes operating within the interior portions of convergent orogenic systems (e.g., the onset and/or duration of thrust fault activity) that are otherwise unobtainable. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0012-821X	 	"[Metcalf, James R.; Fitzgerald, Paul G.; Baldwin, Suzanne L.] Syracuse Univ, Dept Earth Sci, Syracuse, NY 13244 USA. [Munoz, Josep-Anton] Univ Barcelona, Geomodels Inst, Dept Geodinam & Geofis, E-08028 Barcelona, Spain.; Metcalf, JR (reprint author), Syracuse Univ, Dept Earth Sci, 204 Heroy Geol Lab, Syracuse, NY 13244 USA.; jrmetcal@syr.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.epsl.2009.08.036	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Miguel Barea-Azcon,Jose;Benito,Blas M.;Olivares,Francisco J.;Ruiz,Helena;Martin,Javier;Garcia,Antonio L.;Lopez,Rogelio"	Distribution and conservation of the relict interaction between the butterfly Agriades zullichi and its larval foodplant (Androsace vitaliana nevadensis)	Biodiversity and Conservation	Biodivers.Conserv.	2014	APR	23	4	927	944	"A. zullichi;A. vitaliana subsp nevadensis;Biotic interaction;Mediterranean mountains;Species distribution models;Random Forest;CLIMATE-CHANGE;SPECIES-DISTRIBUTION;SIERRA-NEVADA;POSTGLACIAL;HISTORY;WEATHERING SEQUENCE;DISTRIBUTION MODELS;ALPINE VEGETATION;GENETIC-STRUCTURE;SOUTHERN SPAIN;ECOLOGY;Biodiversity & Conservation;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Although Mediterranean mountains are considered biodiversity hot-spots, the presence of relict biotic interactions as a testimony of a past colder climate is an aspect frequently missed. Herein we investigate the distribution and conservation problems of a relict interaction in the Sierra Nevada mountains (southern Europe) between the butterfly Agriades zullichi-a rare and threatened butterfly-and its larval foodplant Androsace vitaliana subsp. nevadensis. We designed an intensive field survey to obtain a comprehensive presence dataset. This was used to calibrate species distribution models with absences taken at local and regional extents, analyze the potential distribution, evaluate the influence of environmental factors in different geographical contexts, and evaluate conservation threats for both organisms. We found 39 presence localities inhabited by the larval foodplant and the butterfly comprising 60.93 ha, with 82 % of the area concentrated in ten larger localities. The local and regional distribution models explained 68.7 and 85.0 % deviance, indicating a suitable area of 1,884.8 and 9,621.22 ha respectively. Topography and soil properties were the most important variables in the local model and temperature in the regional model. We observed several threats such as restricted extent of occurrence, lack of larval foodplant regeneration, the negative effect of the ski resort and a potential high sensitivity to climate change. Finally, we recommend some management measures in order to improve the conservation of key populations of both species, reinforcing A. vitaliana nevadensis populations and researching the importance of phenology in the persistence of this interaction under climate change.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0960-3115	 	"[Miguel Barea-Azcon, Jose; Ruiz, Helena; Martin, Javier; Garcia, Antonio L.; Lopez, Rogelio] Agencia Medio Ambiente & Agua, Consejeri Medio Ambiente & Ordenac Territorio, Junta Andalucia, Granada 18013, Spain. [Benito, Blas M.] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Granada 18006, Spain. [Olivares, Francisco J.] Inst Educac Secundaria Vega Atarfe, Dept Biol & Geol, Granada 1823, Spain.; Barea-Azcon, JM (reprint author), Agencia Medio Ambiente & Agua, Consejeri Medio Ambiente & Ordenac Territorio, Junta Andalucia, Calle Joaquina Eguaras 10, Granada 18013, Spain.; jbarea@agenciamedioambienteyagua.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10531-014-0643-4	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Miguel Medina-Cazorla,Jose;Gil de Carrasco,Carlos;Encarnacion Merlo,Maria;Martinez-Hernandez,Fabian;Antonio Garrido-Becerra,Juan;Salmeron,Esteban;Jesus Mendoza,Antonio;Javier Perez-Garcia,Francisco;Francisco Mota,Juan"	The dolomite shrublands of the Convolvuletalia boissieri order and their preservation by means of the Habitats Directive	Acta Botanica Gallica	Acta Bot.Gallica	2010	DEC	157	4	611	625	"gypsum;flora;vegetation;gypsophilous;dolomitophilous;serpentines;PLANT COMMUNITY PATTERNS;GYPSICOLOUS FLORA;GYPSUM OUTCROPS;SOUTH;SPAIN;NE SPAIN;QUARRIES;DESERT;AREA;Plant Sciences ER"	The shrublands of the Convolvuletalia boissieri order have been known since 1953, when Quezel published the first association in the dolomites of Sierra Nevada (south of Spain). Despite their enormous floristic and ecological originality, the Habitats Directive 92/43/EEC does not mention them as priority habitats. This omission is striking given the particular attention paid by this Directive to other habitats which, like this one, are associated with special substrates. The shrublands of the Gypsophiletalia order, i.e. habitat 1520 of the above mentioned Directive corresponding to gypsophilous vegetation, are a particular case in the Iberian Peninsula. The extensive study of both habitats and their flora over recent years has provided a magnificent opportunity for us to compare them, review their current state of preservation and demand that more serious attention be paid to dolomites.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1253-8078	 	"[Miguel Medina-Cazorla, Jose; Encarnacion Merlo, Maria; Martinez-Hernandez, Fabian; Antonio Garrido-Becerra, Juan; Salmeron, Esteban; Jesus Mendoza, Antonio; Javier Perez-Garcia, Francisco; Francisco Mota, Juan] Univ Almeria, Dpto Biol Vegetal & Ecol, E-04120 Almeria, Spain. [Gil de Carrasco, Carlos] Univ Almeria, Dpto Edafol & Quim Agr, E-04120 Almeria, Spain.; Medina-Cazorla, JM (reprint author), Univ Almeria, Dpto Biol Vegetal & Ecol, E-04120 Almeria, Spain.; jmota@ual.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Mira,Oscar;Martinez,Juan G.;Dawson,Deborah A.;Tinaut,Alberto;Sanchez-Prieto,Cristina"	"Twenty new microsatellite loci for population structure and parentage studies of Parnassius apollo nevadensis (Lepidoptera; Papilionidae)"	Journal of Insect Conservation	J.Insect Conserv.	2014	OCT	18	5	771	779	"Lepidoptera;Microsatellite markers;Parentage analysis;Parnassius apollo;Population structure;Polyandry;EUPHYDRYAS-AURINIA;GENETIC-STRUCTURE;COMPUTER-PROGRAM;MARKERS;DIFFERENTIATION;CONSERVATION;POLYMORPHISM;SMINTHEUS;LANDSCAPE;Biodiversity & Conservation;Entomology ER"	"We characterized 20 new microsatellite loci isolated from Parnassius apollo nevadensis. The 20 loci displayed 2-12 alleles and expected heterozygosities varied from 0.22 to 0.89; the markers were amplified in nine multiplex reactions. The combined non-exclusion probabilities of this set are 0.001084 and 0.000005 for the first and second parents, respectively. This set of markers will thus enable other studies on reproductive strategies and population genetics in this endangered and previously understudied species. We show, for the first time, evidence of multiple paternity and that females may successfully copulate with more than one male despite the presence of mating plugs. Future studies on this mating behavior and population genetics of the species using the 20 loci here presented will be very important to define its conservation status and management measures."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1366-638X	 	"[Mira, Oscar; Martinez, Juan G.; Tinaut, Alberto; Sanchez-Prieto, Cristina] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Mira, Oscar; Dawson, Deborah A.] Univ Sheffield, Dept Anim & Plant Sci, Sheffield S10 2TN, S Yorkshire, England.; Mira, O (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; oskar_mira@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10841-014-9683-z	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Mladenov,N.;Alados-Arboledas,L.;Olmo,F. J.;Lyamani,H.;Delgado,A.;Molina,A.;Reche,I."	Applications of optical spectroscopy and stable isotope analyses to organic aerosol source discrimination in an urban area	Atmospheric Environment	Atmos.Environ.	2011	APR	45	11	1960	1969	"Fluorescence;Absorbance;PARAFAC;Diesel;Sun photometry;African dust;2003 HEAT-WAVE;FLUORESCENCE SPECTROSCOPY;ATMOSPHERIC AEROSOLS;CARBONACEOUS AEROSOLS;SOUTHEASTERN SPAIN;SAHARAN DUST;FINE AEROSOL;FRENCH ALPS;MATTER;PARTICLES;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences ER"	Understanding the chemical character of organic aerosols is extremely important for evaluating their role in climate forcing and human respiratory health. Aerosol columnar properties retrieved by sun photometry represent a large dataset of information about the physical and light absorbing and scattering properties of the total aerosol, but lack more detailed chemical information about the organic fraction of atmospheric particulate matter. To obtain additional information about relationships between organic aerosol sources and columnar properties, we simultaneously examined stable isotope properties of PM10 aerosols from urban (Granada, Spain) and remote (Sierra Nevada, Spain) sites and diesel exhaust, spectroscopic properties of water soluble organic carbon (WSOC) of PA(10) aerosols, and sun photometry measurements. We demonstrated that C and N stable isotopes and parameters from UV-vis and fluorescence spectroscopy are able to discriminate between aerosols receiving substantial fossil fuel pollution and those influenced by Saharan dust in an urban area. More depleted delta C-13 was associated with low asymmetry parameter, g(lambda), and high values of the spectral slope ratio, S-R, were associated with high effective radius, typical of pollution situations. The humification index (HIX), used predominantly to evaluate the degree of organic matter humification, was significantly related to g(lambda), and the radius of fine mode particles, r(f) and may reflect aging of the Saharan dust-influenced aerosols. Parallel factor analysis (PARAFAC) modeling identified a fluorescent component (C3) with a spectrum similar to that of naphthalene, which was significantly related to g(lambda), and rf. The diesel exhaust sample represented a pollution end-member, with the lightest delta C-13 value (-26.4 parts per thousand,), lowest S-R (0.95), lowest HIX (2.77) and highest %C3 (20%) of all samples. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1352-2310	 	"[Mladenov, N.; Reche, I.] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Alados-Arboledas, L.; Olmo, F. J.; Lyamani, H.] Ctr Andaluz Medio Ambiente CEAMA, Granada 18006, Spain. [Alados-Arboledas, L.; Olmo, F. J.; Molina, A.] Univ Granada, Dept Fis Aplicada, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Delgado, A.] Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra CSIC, Granada 18100, Spain.; Mladenov, N (reprint author), Univ Colorado, INSTAAR, 450 UCB, Boulder, CO 80309 USA.; mladenov@colorado.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.atmosenv.2011.01.029	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Mladenov,N.;Lopez-Ramos,J.;McKnight,D. M.;Reche,I."	Alpine lake optical properties as sentinels of dust deposition and global change	Limnology and Oceanography	Limnol.Oceanogr.	2009	NOV	54	6	2386	2400	"DISSOLVED ORGANIC-MATTER;COLORADO FRONT RANGE;HIGH-MOUNTAIN LAKES;SOLAR UV-RADIATION;FLUORESCENCE SPECTROSCOPY;ATMOSPHERIC AEROSOLS;BACTERIAL-ACTIVITY;UNITED-STATES;WATER;CARBON;Marine & Freshwater Biology;Oceanography ER"	We characterized dissolved organic matter in La Caldera, an alpine lake in Sierra Nevada (Spain), and water-soluble organic compounds (WSOC) in dry and wet deposition originating from Saharan and marine air masses using ultraviolet-visible absorbance and three-dimensional fluorescence spectroscopy. Molar absorption coefficients at 250 and 280 nm in the lake were highly correlated with those in organic aerosol deposition, originating mainly from Saharan dust, and suggest that absorption in clear alpine lakes in unvegetated catchments may represent a unique sentinel of desertification and global change. Using parallel factor analysis modeling to resolve dominant fluorescent components, we identified a semiquinone-like fluorophore (C9) in the WSOC of deposition that was traced into the lake. At least three fluorescent components, including C9, contributed significantly to absorption of WSOC from atmospheric deposition. Saharan dust supplied chromophoric, aromatic, and fluorescent organic matter to this alpine lake. In contrast, marine organic aerosols had lower absorption coefficients, lower fluorescence intensity, and more microbial fluorescence properties.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0024-3590	 	"[Mladenov, N.; Lopez-Ramos, J.; Reche, I.] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Granada, Spain. [Mladenov, N.; McKnight, D. M.] Univ Colorado, Inst Arctic & Alpine Res, Boulder, CO 80309 USA. [Reche, I.] Univ Granada, Inst Agua, Granada, Spain.; Mladenov, N (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Granada, Spain.; mladenov@colorado.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.4319/lo.2009.54.6_part_2.2386	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Mladenov,Natalie;Pulido-Villena,Elvira;Morales-Baquero,Rafael;Ortega-Retuerta,Eva;Sommaruga,Ruben;Reche,Isabel"	Spatiotemporal drivers of dissolved organic matter in high alpine lakes: Role of Saharan dust inputs and bacterial activity	Journal of Geophysical Research-Biogeosciences	 	2008	Dec-23	113	 	G00D01	G00D01	"HIGH-MOUNTAIN LAKES;CATCHMENT CHARACTERISTICS;ULTRAVIOLET-RADIATION;PHYTOPLANKTON BIOMASS;AUSTRIAN ALPS;NATIONAL-PARK;CARBON;AEROSOLS;REGION;FLUORESCENCE;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Geology ER"	"The effects of many environmental stressors such as UV radiation are mediated by dissolved organic matter (DOM) properties. Therefore, determining the factors shaping spatial and temporal patterns is particularly essential in the most susceptible, low dissolved organic carbon (DOC) lakes. We analyzed spatiotemporal variations in dissolved organic carbon concentration and dissolved organic matter optical properties (absorption and fluorescence) in 11 transparent lakes located above tree line in the Sierra Nevada Mountains (Spain), and we assessed potential external (evaporation and atmospheric deposition) and internal (bacterial abundance, bacterial production, chlorophyll a, and catchment vegetation) drivers of DOM patterns. At spatial and temporal scales, bacteria were related to chromophoric DOM (CDOM). At the temporal scale, water soluble organic carbon (WSOC) in dust deposition and evaporation were found to have a significant influence on DOC and CDOM in two Sierra Nevada lakes studied during the ice-free periods of 2000-2002. DOC concentrations and absorption coefficients at 320 nm were strongly correlated over the spatial scale (n = 11, R(2) = 0.86; p < 0.01), but inconsistently correlated over time, indicating seasonal and interannual variability in external factors and a differential response of DOC concentration and CDOM to these factors. At the continental scale, higher mean DOC concentrations and more CDOM in lakes of the Sierra Nevada than in lakes of the Pyrenees and Alps may be due to a combination of more extreme evaporation, and greater atmospheric dust deposition."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0148-0227	 	"[Mladenov, Natalie; Morales-Baquero, Rafael; Ortega-Retuerta, Eva; Reche, Isabel] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Pulido-Villena, Elvira] CNRS, UMR7093, Lab Oceanog Villefranche, F-06238 Villefranche Sur Mer, France. [Sommaruga, Ruben] Univ Innsbruck, Inst Ecol, Lab Aquat Photobiol & Plankton Ecol, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria.; Mladenov, N (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Campus Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; ireche@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1029/2008JG000699	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Molero Mesa,Joaquin;Fernandez Calzado,Ma Rosa"	Evolution of the high mountain flora of Sierra Nevada (1837-2009)	Acta Botanica Gallica	Acta Bot.Gallica	2010	DEC	157	4	659	667	"flora;Boissier;biodiversity;conservation;climatic change;Plant Sciences ER"	Sierra Nevada is well known for its biodiversed flora which contains an enormous richness of species and is highly original, 2100 taxa. The cryoromediterranean belt is situated on the highest part of this range and presents 185 taxa despite its small territory. This zone is mentioned as very vulnerable in the last report on the effects of climate change in Spain. In this framework, it seems of special interest to compare our results with the existing information about the same territory which had been gathered by Boissier (172 years ago). It became apparent that the number has increased by 65 taxa, thus giving importance to the increased number of therophytes. Also, diverse taxa mentioned by Boissier as rare or scanty in lower altitude, are nowadays frequent in the highest part of Sierra Nevada.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1253-8078	 	"[Molero Mesa, Joaquin; Fernandez Calzado, Ma Rosa] Fac Farm, Dpto Bot, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Mesa, JM (reprint author), Fac Farm, Dpto Bot, Campus Cartuja, E-18071 Granada, Spain."	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Monforte,Laura;Nunez-Olivera,Encarnacion;Martinez-Abaigar,Javier"	UV radiation biomonitoring using cell compartmentation of UV-absorbing compounds in herbarium samples of a liverwort	Ecological Indicators	Ecol.Ind.	2015	MAY	52	 	48	56	"Biological proxies;Biomonitoring;Bryophytes;Liverworts;UV-absorbing compounds;UV radiation;HYDROXYCINNAMIC ACID-DERIVATIVES;STRATOSPHERIC OZONE DEPLETION;ULTRAVIOLET-B RADIATION;MOSS BRYUM-ARGENTEUM;AQUATIC LIVERWORT;ANTARCTIC MOSS;SCREENING COMPOUNDS;SEASONAL-VARIATIONS;PHENOLIC-COMPOUNDS;QUANTUM YIELD;Biodiversity & Conservation;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Ultraviolet-absorbing compounds (UVACs) were analyzed in 90 herbarium samples of the liverwort Jungermannia exsertifolia subsp. cordifolia collected throughout Spain in the period 1913-2006, in order to evaluate their usefulness in UV radiation biomonitoring. This was assessed, for the first time in bryophytes, differentiating the soluble (mainly vacuolar) and insoluble (cell wall-bound) UVACs (respectively, SUVACs and IUVACs), which may represent different mechanisms to cope with UV radiation. The bulk levels of SUVACs and IUVACs, and the concentrations of seven individual compounds (five SUVACs and two IUVACs) were analyzed, and several environmental variables of the sampling points were obtained: longitude, latitude, altitude, ozone column, and modelled UV levels. Diverse positive relationships of UVAC variables with UV radiation levels were identified in both the temporal and spatial scales. The soluble compound p-coumaroylmalic acid showed significantly higher concentrations in the years after the onset of stratospheric ozone degradation (around 1975) with respect to the previous years. The bulk level and the concentrations of three individual SUVACs were higher in the Spanish samples analyzed in the present study than in the northern European samples analyzed in a previous study in which IUVACs were not considered. The bulk level of IUVACs was the biological variable best spatially correlated with the UV exposure of the samples and with important factors determining it, such as altitude and latitude. Furthermore, the bulk level of IUVACs was the biological variable selected by a stepwise multiple linear regression analysis to reconstruct the past levels of UV-B radiation. The reconstructed UV-B did not show a clear trend in the period 1913-2006, which was coincident with other climatic and biological UV reconstructions. Both SUVACs and IUVACs were significant loading factors differentiating summer and autumn samples in the Principal Components Analysis conducted using both UVACs and the environmental variables, but again the bulk level of IUVACs was the main loading factor differentiating the samples collected from the highest and most UV-exposed localities (Sierra Nevada). In general, these findings suggest that UVACs were stimulated by increased UV levels in time or space, and that IUVACs would be better UV protectants than SUVACs, probably due to their more efficient screening capacity. Overall, UVACs of J. exsertifolia subsp. cordifolia were good UV biomarkers, and their location in the soluble or cell wall-bound fractions determined their usefulness in the different aspects of UV biomonitoring, including the assessment of the UV-B increase associated to anthropogenic ozone degradation. 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1470-160X	 	"[Monforte, Laura; Nunez-Olivera, Encarnacion; Martinez-Abaigar, Javier] Univ La Rioja, E-26006 Logrono, Spain.; Martinez-Abaigar, J (reprint author), Univ La Rioja, Edificio Cient Tecn,Avda Madre Dios 51, E-26006 Logrono, Spain.; javier.martinez@unirioja.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.ecolind.2014.11.027	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Moreno,Javier;Palomo,Ignacio;Escalera,Javier;Martin-Lopez,Berta;Montes,Carlos"	Incorporating ecosystem services into ecosystem-based management to deal with complexity: a participative mental model approach	Landscape Ecology	Landscape Ecol.	2014	OCT	29	8	1407	1421	"Mental models;Deliberative groups;Participative analyses;Ecosystem services;Ecosystem-based management;Social-ecological system;COGNITIVE MAPPING APPROACH;RESOURCES;MANAGEMENT;SOUTHWESTERN SPAIN;CONSERVATION;STAKEHOLDER;KNOWLEDGE;IMPLEMENTATION;FRAMEWORK;SCIENCE;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	Integrating ecosystem services into ecosystem-based management (EBM) is currently one of the most relevant challenges for management. For that purpose, it is necessary to depict the relationships established between ecosystems and society considering the delivery, use and governance of ecosystem services. One effective way of doing so involves collaboration between researchers, who scientifically study the system, and managers, who have specific experience and technical knowledge. With this aim, we held two workshops in 2011 in the National Parks of Doana and Sierra Nevada, Andalusia (Spain), with researchers and managers from the protected areas at different organizational levels: local, regional and national. Taking the participative mental model technique as an inspiration, we developed a tool that was used as a means to allow a holistic analysis of ecosystem services from an interdisciplinary and participative perspective. We found that participatory mental models, help integrating ecosystem services into EBM as it includes stakeholders' proposals and knowledge. For the implementation of ecosystem services for management, we discuss the necessity of navigating a process that requires considerable changes, not only in using new concepts such as ecosystem services, but also in the management structures that govern the services. This process would require closer interaction between citizens, researchers and managers, and the creation of new participation spaces that include ecosystem service beneficiaries located beyond protected areas.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0921-2973	 	"[Moreno, Javier; Escalera, Javier] Pablo Olavide Univ, Social Anthropol Basic Psychol & Publ Hlth Dept, Seville 41013, Spain. [Moreno, Javier] Asociac Pasos, Participac & Sostenibilidad, Granada 18014, Spain. [Palomo, Ignacio; Martin-Lopez, Berta; Montes, Carlos] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Dept Ecol, Social Ecol Syst Lab, E-28049 Madrid, Spain. [Palomo, Ignacio] Basque Ctr Climate Change BC3, Bilbao 48008, Spain.; Moreno, J (reprint author), Pablo Olavide Univ, Social Anthropol Basic Psychol & Publ Hlth Dept, Carretera Utrera,Km 1, Seville 41013, Spain.; investigacion@participacionysostenibilidad.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10980-014-0053-8	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Mueller,B.	Idaea gelbrechti Hausmann, 2003 new for Spain and Europe (Lepidoptera: Geometridae)	Shilap-Revista De Lepidopterologia	 	2010	JUN	38	150	159	163	"Lepidoptera;Geometridae;Idaea gelbrechti;Europe;Spain;Entomology ER"	"The geometrid moth Idaea gelbrechti Hausmann, 2003 was found in Andalusia in the Sierra Nevada as new for Spain and Europe. This species is compared with the sister species Idaea aversata; differences in morphology and wing pattern are discussed. A checklist of accompanying species is given at the end of this paper."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0300-5267	 	"Muller, B (reprint author), Weissdornallee 13, D-13158 Berlin, Germany.; geobernd@gmx.de"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Nassl,Michael;Loeffler,Joerg"	Ecosystem services in coupled social-ecological systems: Closing the cycle of service provision and societal feedback	Ambio	Ambio	2015	DEC	44	8	737	749	"Human-nature interactions;Ecosystem services;Driver-Pressure-State-Impact-Response (DPSIR) model;Mountain Research;Sierra Nevada (Spain);CONCEPTUAL-FRAMEWORK;CLASSIFICATION;MANAGEMENT;VALUATION;DPSIR;GOODS;Engineering;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Both the 'cascade model' of ecosystem service provision and the Driver-Pressure-State-Impact-Response framework individually contribute to the understanding of human-nature interactions in social-ecological systems (SES). Yet, as several points of criticism show, they are limited analytical tools when it comes to reproducing complex cause-effect relationships in such systems. However, in this paper, we point out that by merging the two models, they can mutually enhance their comprehensiveness and overcome their individual conceptual deficits. Therefore we closed a cycle of ecosystem service provision and societal feedback by rethinking and reassembling the core elements of both models. That way, we established a causal sequence apt to describe the causes of change to SES, their effects and their consequences. Finally, to illustrate its functioning we exemplified and discussed our approach based on a case study conducted in the Alpujarra de la Sierra in southern Spain.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0044-7447	 	"[Nassl, Michael; Loeffler, Joerg] Univ Bonn, Dept Geog, D-53115 Bonn, Germany.; Nassl, M (reprint author), Univ Bonn, Dept Geog, Mecken Heimer Allee 166, D-53115 Bonn, Germany.; mnassl@uni-bonn.de; joerg.loeffler@uni-bonn.de"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s13280-015-0651-y	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Navarro,Rafael;Pereira,Dolores;Rodriguez-Navarro,Carlos;Sebastian-Pardo,Eduardo"	The Sierra Nevada serpentinites: the serpentinites most used in Spanish heritage buildings	Global Heritage Stone: Towards International Recognition of Building and Ornamental Stones	 	2015	 	407	 	101	108	Geology ER	Serpentinites from Sierra Nevada (Granada, south of Spain) have traditionally been used as ornamental elements in historical buildings, both indoors and outdoors. The cathedral, the Palace of Charles V, the Royal Chancellery in Granada and some others are good examples of their use. Outside Granada, the serpentinites are seen at the monastery of El Escorial, The Royal Palace and the convent of Las Salesas Reales, all of them part of Madrid's architectural heritage, although there are much more examples to be found across the country. There are two quarries located in Sierra Nevada that supplied all the material to make the different elements in the above buildings. In this work, we report a thorough characterization of the main characteristics of the serpentinites from Sierra Nevada in order to propose this stone as a possible candidate as a 'Global Heritage Stone Resource'. This work is important for duly recognizing a natural stone that has been profusely used in the past in the construction of a magnificent heritage of important cities, and historical quarries should be protected so that they can provide original material if required to do so in the future.	PT: S	 	Pereira, D Marker, BR Kramar, S Cooper, BJ Schouenborg,BE	Geological Society Special Publication	 	 	 				 	"0305-8719; 978-1-86239-685-2"	 	"[Navarro, Rafael] IGME, Granada 18006, Spain. [Pereira, Dolores; Rodriguez-Navarro, Carlos] Univ Salamanca, Dept Geol, Fac Ciencias, E-37008 Salamanca, Spain. [Sebastian-Pardo, Eduardo] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Mineral & Petrol, Granada 18002, Spain.; Navarro, R (reprint author), IGME, 4 Edif Zulema, Granada 18006, Spain.; rafanavarro74@gmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1144/SP407.7	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Book, Whole	"Navarro,Rafael;Sanchez-Valverde,Josefina;Manuel Baltuille,Jose"	"The Natural Stone in the Historic Buildings of the City of Granada (Southern Spain). Features as a Possible Candidate for the Designation of ""Global Heritage Stone Province"""	 	 	2015	 	 	 	232	 	"Calcarenite;Travertine;Limestone;Granada;Global heritage stone province;DURABILITY;ROCKS;Engineering;Geology;Materials Science ER"	"The heritage diversity that exists in the city of Granada in the south of Spain can be seen in the type of rock from which the majority of the emblematic monuments are built, especially since the 15th century. There are three main lithotypes extracted in the province of Granada which are present in most of the heritage buildings in the city centre. These rocks are known as ""Santa Pudia"" calcarenite (Tortonian), ""Sierra Elvira"" limestone (Lias) and ""Alfacar"" travertine (Quaternary). It gives an outstanding aesthetic and ornamental richness to the city. Besides these, there are other lithologies from the province, such as conglomerate from El Turro, marble from Lanjaron, limestone from Loja and serpentinite from Sierra Nevada, which have also been used occasionally. In this paper we show a detailed characterization of these materials, including quarry provenance, main mineralogical and physical characteristics, main uses in different buildings and major deterioration problems that these stones may have. An adequate knowledge of the materials with which the different architectural elements of the city were built, contribute to executing appropriate restoration and contribute to the proper maintenance of the heritage of the city. With this contribution we suggest that the province of Granada should be considered as a ""Global Heritage Stone Province"", given that the richness and variety of natural stone used in its monuments is more than proven."	PT: B	 	Lollino, G Manconi, A Guzzetti, F Culshaw, M Bobrowsky, P Luino,F.	 	 	 	 				 	"978-3-319-09048-1; 978-3-319-09047-4"	 	"[Navarro, Rafael; Sanchez-Valverde, Josefina] Spanish Geol Survey IGME, Granada 18006, Spain. [Navarro, Rafael; Sanchez-Valverde, Josefina] CONSTRUROCK Network, Granada 18006, Spain. [Manuel Baltuille, Jose] Spanish Geol Survey IGME, Madrid 28003, Spain.; Navarro, R (reprint author), Spanish Geol Survey IGME, Urb Alcazar Genil 4, Granada 18006, Spain.; rafanavarro74@gmail.com; fsvalverde@gmail.com; jm.baltuille@igme.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/978-3-319-09048-1_44	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Negro,F.;de Sigoyer,J.;Goffe,B.;Saddiqi,O.;Villa,I. M."	Tectonic evolution of the Betic-Rif arc: New constraints from (40)Ar/(39)Ar dating on white micas in the Temsamane units (External Rif, northern Morocco)	Lithos	Lithos	2008	NOV	106	01-Feb	93	109	"Alboran;Betics;Rif;Ar-Ar;Temsamane;Morocco;CORDILLERA SE SPAIN;MESSINIAN SALINITY CRISIS;NEVADO-FILABRIDE;COMPLEX;SOUTHERN SPAIN;ALBORAN DOMAIN;HIGH-PRESSURE;ALPUJARRIDE;SIERRA-NEVADA;GIBRALTAR ARC;TEMPERATURE METAMORPHISM;Geochemistry & Geophysics;Mineralogy ER"	"The Betic-Rif orogen, at the western end of the Mediterranean, is a key region to improve our knowledge on the Africa-Eurasia convergence. The Ternsamane units, in spite of their external position in the Rif (northern Morocco), underwent medium-pressure low-temperature (MP-LT) conditions (ca. 7-9 kbar; 330-430 degrees C). We propose a new tectonic and metamorphic evolution scenario for the Rif (southern) branch of the orogen on the basis of first (40)Ar/(39)Ar dating on petrologically and structurally characterized white micas. Three groups of (40)Ar/(39)Ar ages are observed: (1) Chattian or older Si-rich (highest-pressure) mica relics, (2) 15-12.5 Ma corresponding to the micas defining the foliation and (3) Messinian or younger late micas and alteration. We propose that the MP-LT metamorphic event in the External Rif is Oligocene in age, highlighting a subduction event during this period which could be almost contemporaneous with the burial of HP-LT units from the internal Rif (Alboran Domain). The exhumation of these units characterized by an intense E-W stretching and by top-to-the-west shear senses, is Middle to Late Miocene in age. We propose a correlation of tectonic and metamorphic events at the Betic-Rif arc scale. We argue that the exhumation of the external units of the Rif (1) is younger than that of the Alboran Domain (internal) unit of the Rif, and mirrors a different tectonic setting, but (2) strongly resembles to that documented in the lower Alboran Domain units of the Betics. We show that a regional E-W extension is recorded on both sides of the Betic-Rif arc during the Middle Miocene. This extension probably reflects back-arc deformation of an eastward dipping subduction that retreated westward during the Middle to Late Miocene in the Western Mediterranean. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0024-4937	 	"[Negro, F.; de Sigoyer, J.; Goffe, B.] Ecole Normale Super, CNRS, Geol Lab, UMR 8538, F-75005 Paris, France. [Saddiqi, O.] Univ Hassan II Ain Chock, Dept Geol, Fac Sci, Casablanca, Morocco. [Villa, I. M.] Univ Bern, Inst Geol, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland. [Villa, I. M.] Univ Milano Bicocca, Dipartimento Sci Geol & Geotecnol, I-20126 Milan, Italy.; Negro, F (reprint author), Univ Neuchatel, Inst Geol, 11 Rue Emile Argand,CP158, CH-2009 Neuchatel, Switzerland.; francois.negro@unine.ch"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.lithos.2008.06.011	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Notario del Pino,Jesus S.;Ruiz-Gallardo,Jose-Reyes"	Modelling post-fire soil erosion hazard using ordinal logistic regression: A case study in South-eastern Spain	Geomorphology	Geomorphology	2015	Mar-01	232	 	117	124	"Post-fire soil erosion risk;Fire severity;Slope;Aspect;Ordinal logistic regression model;WATER EROSION;FOREST-FIRE;MEDITERRANEAN ENVIRONMENTS;VEGETATION RECOVERY;AGGREGATE STABILITY;SOUTHEASTERN SPAIN;FUNCTIONAL;TYPES;PRESCRIBED FIRE;SIERRA-NEVADA;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	Treatments that minimize soil erosion after large wildfires depend, among other factors, on fire severity and landscape configuration so that, in practice, most of them are applied according to emergency criteria. Therefore, simple tools to predict soil erosion risk help to decide where the available resources should be used first. In this study, a predictive model for soil erosion degree, based on ordinal logistic regression, has been developed and evaluated using data from three large forest fires in South-eastern Spain. The field data were successfully fit to the model in 60% of cases after 50 runs (i.e., agreement between observed and predicted soil erosion degrees), using slope steepness, slope aspect, and fire severity as predictors. North-facing slopes were shown to be less prone to soil erosion than the rest. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0169-555X	 	"[Notario del Pino, Jesus S.] Univ La Laguna, Fac Sci, Dept Anim Biol Soil Sci & Geol, Tenerife 38201, Canary Islands, Spain. [Ruiz-Gallardo, Jose-Reyes] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Reg Dev Inst IDR, Remote Sensing & GIS Sect, Albacete 02071, Spain.; Ruiz-Gallardo, JR (reprint author), Univ Castilla La Mancha, Reg Dev Inst IDR, Remote Sensing & GIS Sect, Albacete 02071, Spain.; josereyes.ruiz@uclm.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.geomorph.2014.12.005	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Oliva,M.;Gomez Ortiz,A."	Holocene slope dynamics in Sierra Nevada (south Spain). Sedimentological analysis of solifluction landforms and lake deposits	Ice-Marginal and Periglacial Processes and Sediments	 	2011	 	354	 	227	239	"LAST GLACIAL MAXIMUM;POSTGLACIAL COLLUVIUM;PALEOCLIMATIC RECORD;WESTERN NORWAY;CLIMATE;TRANSITION;HISTORY;FACIES;CANADA;REGION;Geology ER"	The activity of geomorphic processes in the current periglacial belt of Sierra Nevada during the Holocene has been strongly controlled by climate variability. We examined two sedimentary records showing several cycles with varying intensity of slope processes in the massif. Chronostratigraphic studies of solifluction landforms have revealed seven cycles of enhanced slope activity in Sierra Nevada during the last 7 ka. Lake sediments show eight periods with increased slope activity over the last 6 ka. Depending on temperature and moisture regime, erosion or conditions of slope stability prevailed. Cold and wet periods triggered slope processes and favoured deposition of coarse-grained sediments into the lakes, whereas warm phases were prone to soil development and fine-grained sedimentation in the lakes. The lake sediments also show evidence for an increasing aridity trend since the Holocene Optimum Warm Period in Sierra Nevada, which induced a shift of solifluction processes to higher elevations accompanying late-lying snow patches.	PT: S	 	Martini, IP French, HM Alberti,AP	Geological Society Special Publication	 	 	 				 	"0305-8719; 978-1-86239-327-1"	 	"[Oliva, M.] Univ Lisbon, Inst Geog & Territorial Planning, P-1600214 Lisbon, Portugal. [Gomez Ortiz, A.] Univ Barcelona, Dept Phys & Reg Geog, Barcelona 08001, Spain. [Oliva, M.; Gomez Ortiz, A.] Univ Barcelona, Landscape Res & Mediterranean Mt Palaeoenvironm R, Barcelona 08001, Spain.; Oliva, M (reprint author), Univ Lisbon, Inst Geog & Territorial Planning, P-1600214 Lisbon, Portugal.; oliva_marc@yahoo.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1144/SP354.15	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Oliva,Marc;Gomez Ortiz,Antonio;Salvador Franch,Ferran;Salva Catarineu,Montserrat"	Present-Day Solifluction Processes in the Semi-arid Range of Sierra Nevada (Spain)	Arctic Antarctic and Alpine Research	 	2014	MAY	46	2	365	370	"CENTRIFUGE;LANDFORMS;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Physical Geography ER"	In the highest land of the Sierra Nevada National Park, an experiment to monitor solifluction rates together with the thermal regime of the ground was implemented during the period 2005-2011. Data show evidence of the low activity of solifluction processes in the present-day periglacial belt of Sierra Nevada. Annual displacement rates were lower than 1 cm yr(-1) both in northern and southern slopes. Solifluction was more active near snow patches and streams. Rates were also higher during snowier years. Soil temperatures showed seasonal frost occurrence, though the depth and duration of the frozen layer is strongly conditioned by the annual snow covet Water availability appears to be a crucial factor for solifluction processes in this semiarid environment.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1523-0430	 	"[Oliva, Marc] Univ Lisbon, Inst Geog & Spatial Planning, P-1600214 Lisbon, Portugal. [Gomez Ortiz, Antonio; Salvador Franch, Ferran; Salva Catarineu, Montserrat] Univ Barcelona, Dept Phys & Reg Geog, Barcelona 08001, Catalonia, Spain.; Oliva, M (reprint author), Univ Lisbon, Inst Geog & Spatial Planning, Alameda Univ, P-1600214 Lisbon, Portugal.; oliva_marc@yahoo.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1657/1938-4246-46.2.365	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Oliva,Marc;Gomez Ortiz,Antonio;Salvador,Ferran;Salva,Montserrat;Pereira,Paulo;Geraldes,Miguel"	Long-term soil temperature dynamics in the Sierra Nevada, Spain	Geoderma	Geoderma	2014	DEC	235	 	170	181	"Sierra Nevada;Periglacial environment;Solifluction processes;Soil temperatures;Seasonal frost;Snow cover;POLAR YEAR 2007-2009;GROUND THERMAL REGIME;PERMAFROST;DISTRIBUTION;NORTHERN-HEMISPHERE;SWISS ALPS;SOLIFLUCTION;STATE;CENTRIFUGE;MOUNTAINS;Agriculture ER"	Soil temperatures play a key role on the dynamics of geomorphological processes in periglacial environments. However, little is known about soil thermal dynamics in periglacial environments of semiarid mid-latitude mountains, where seasonal frost is dominant. From September 2006 to August 2012 we have monitored soil temperatures at different depths (2, 10, 20, 50 and 100 cm) in a solifluction landform located at 3005 m.a.s.l. in the summit area of the Sierra Nevada (South Spain). Mean annual temperatures in the first meter of the soil ranged from 3.6 to 3.9 degrees C while the mean annual air temperature at the nearby Veleta peak was 0.08 degrees C. Therefore, these data point out the inexistence of widespread permafrost conditions today in this massif. Seasonal frost controls the geomorphodynamics even in the highest lands. Climate conditions have shown a large interannual variability, as it is characteristic in a high mountainous Mediterranean environment. These variations are reflected in the patterns of soil thermal dynamics. The depth and duration of the frozen layer are strongly conditioned by the thickness of the snow cover. The date of the first significant snowfalls conditioned the beginning and rhythm of freezing of the soil. Wet years resulted in a thick snow cover which insulated the ground from external climate oscillations and favored a shallow frost layer (2008-2009,2009-2010 and 2010-2011). On the other hand, years with low precipitations promoted deeper freezing of the soil down to 60-70 cm extending until late May or early June (2006-2007,2007-2008 and 2011-2012). When snow melted a high increase of temperatures of 10-12 degrees C in few weeks was recorded at all depths. At this time of the year, periglacial activity is enhanced due to higher water availability and the existence of freeze-thaw cycles. These were recorded mostly in spring and autumn in the first 50 cm depth of the soil, ranging from 9.8 days (at 2 cm) to 3.7 days (at 50 cm). However, the inactivity of solifluction landforms suggests that the combination of present-day soil temperatures together with moisture conditions is not favorable to promote solifluction activity in the periglacial belt of the Sierra Nevada. Future climate scenarios point to a temperature increase and precipitation decrease in the area, which would entail deeper but shorter frozen soil layers. These conditions would not be favorable for active periglacial slope processes in the Sierra Nevada. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0016-7061	 	"[Oliva, Marc; Geraldes, Miguel] Univ Lisbon, Inst Geog & Spatial Planning, P-1600214 Lisbon, Portugal. [Gomez Ortiz, Antonio; Salvador, Ferran; Salva, Montserrat] Univ Barcelona, Dept Phys & Reg Geog, Barcelona 08001, Catalonia, Spain. [Pereira, Paulo] Mykolas Romeris Univ, Ctr Environm Management, Vilnius, Lithuania.; Oliva, M (reprint author), Univ Lisbon, Ctr Estudos Geog IGOT, Edilcio FLUL,Alameda Univ, P-1600214 Lisbon, Portugal.; oliva_marc@yahoo.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.geoderma.2014.07.012	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Oliva,Marc;Gomez-Ortiz,A."	Late-Holocene environmental dynamics and climate variability in a Mediterranean high mountain environment (Sierra Nevada, Spain) inferred from lake sediments and historical sources	Holocene	Holocene	2012	AUG	22	8	915	927	"climate variability;documentary sources;environmental evolution;lake sediments;late Holocene;Sierra Nevada;IBERIAN PENINSULA;SOUTHERN SPAIN;GLACIER FLUCTUATIONS;MONTANE REGION;EUROPE;VEGETATION;RECORD;ALPS;GLACIATION;IMPACT;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	Landscape dynamics in the periglacial belt of a high mountain Mediterranean environment is a process of rapid evolution but complex reconstruction. Following this purpose, in this paper we discuss data from two sources concerning the past evolution of the present-day periglacial environment in the Sierra Nevada (southern Iberian Peninsula): mountain lake sediments and documentary sources. La Mosca lake sedimentary record provides information about the palaeocological evolution in the MulhacSn cirque over the last three millennia, while documentary sources enable us to reconstruct the landscape evolution in the high lands of this massif over the last eight centuries. During the late Holocene cold and wet phases have favoured the activity of geomorphic processes, with ephemeral development of glaciers in the highest northern cirques, abundance of late-lying snow patches and a decrease of the vegetation cover in the highest catchments. By contrast, warm periods have been more conducive to geomorphic stability, with an extension of the vegetation grass cover, but without glaciers and with a lower density of snow patches in summer. The comparison of the palaeocological evolution and associated palaeoclimatic conditions in the Sierra Nevada with other regional proxies shows evidence of the moderate sensitivity of the geomorphological processes occurring in the massif during the late Holocene with respect to the climate variability prevailing in the Iberian Peninsula and neighbouring areas. According to lake sedimentary records, the 'Little Ice Age' has been the coldest period during the late Holocene. Historical sources suggest a temperature increase of 0.93 degrees C since the middle of the 19th century.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0959-6836	 	"[Oliva, Marc] Univ Lisbon, P-1699 Lisbon, Portugal. [Gomez-Ortiz, A.] Univ Barcelona, E-08007 Barcelona, Spain.; Oliva, M (reprint author), Alameda Univ, P-1600214 Lisbon, Portugal.; oliva_marc@yahoo.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1177/0959683611434235	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Oliva,Marc;Ortiz,Antonio Gomez;Palacios,David;Salvador-Franch,Ferran;Salva-Catarineu,Montserrat"	Environmental evolution in Sierra Nevada (South Spain) since the Last Glaciation, based on multi-proxy records	Quaternary International	 	2014	Dec-05	353	 	195	209	"MEDITERRANEAN HIGH-MOUNTAIN;CLIMATE VARIABILITY;IBERIAN PENINSULA;LATE PLEISTOCENE;LATE-HOLOCENE;EUROPEAN ALPS;ICE-AGE;VEGETATION;MAXIMUM;HISTORY;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	Our knowledge of the Quaternary landscape evolution in the high mountain areas of the Iberian Peninsula has substantially improved over the last decades. The Sierra Nevada is one of the most studied mountain ranges in southern Europe regarding its environmental evolution. The purpose of the present paper is to integrate and summarize all the studies focused on the reconstruction of the palaeoenvironmental history in this massif since the Last Glaciation. Research has focused both on different sedimentary records and historical sources. A wide range of geomorphological, sedimentological and geochronological techniques have been used to characterize the glacial, periglacial, wetland and lacustrine records for palaeoenvironmental purposes. For the last nine centuries tens of descriptions, maps and sketches describe the landscape of the summit area of the Sierra Nevada, providing evidences of the historical environmental events. Based on a multi-proxy approach, five periods have been identified: Last Glaciation, deglaciation, Holocene, Little Ice Age and recent evolution. Recent studies have detected the maximum expansion of glaciers in the Sierra Nevada around 30-32 ka BP, predating the global temperature minimum. No data about the environmental evolution is available between 20-30 ka BP. Around 19-20 ka BP glaciers advanced significantly. The process of deglaciation was rapid and around 14-15 ka BP the massif was almost free of ice. The Late Glacial promoted the formation of small glaciers in the highest northern cirques and widespread active periglacial processes (i.e. rock glaciers). During the Holocene there has been an alternation of colder/warmer periods and changing moisture conditions. Periglacial processes have been generally widespread in the summit area, with an increasing or decreasing activity depending on climate conditions. Ephemeral reappearance of small glacial cirques occurred in the highest northern cirques during the coldest and wettest phases. This is the case of the Little Ice Age, as revealed by historical documents and sedimentary records. Since the last decades of the XIX century the temperature has increased similar to 0.93 degrees C leading to a decrease of the intensity of periglacial processes in the high lands of the Sierra Nevada. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd and INQUA. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1040-6182	 	"[Oliva, Marc] Univ Lisbon, Inst Geog & Spatial Planning, P-1600214 Lisbon, Portugal. [Ortiz, Antonio Gomez; Salvador-Franch, Ferran; Salva-Catarineu, Montserrat] Univ Barcelona, Dept Phys & Reg Geog, Barcelona 08001, Catalonia, Spain. [Palacios, David] Univ Complutense, Dept Reg & Phys Geog, E-28040 Madrid, Spain.; Oliva, M (reprint author), Univ Lisbon, Inst Geog & Spatial Planning, Alameda Univ, P-1600214 Lisbon, Portugal.; oliva_marc@yahoo.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.quaint.2014.02.009	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Oliva,Marc;Schulte,Lothar;Gomez Ortiz,Antonio"	The role of aridification in constraining the elevation range of Holocene solifluction processes and associated landforms in the periglacial belt of the Sierra Nevada (southern Spain)	Earth Surface Processes and Landforms	Earth Surf.Process.Landforms	2011	AUG	36	10	1279	1291	"Sierra Nevada;Holocene;solifluction landforms;lake sediments;climate variability;LAST GLACIAL MAXIMUM;YUKON-TERRITORY;KLUANE RANGE;LAND-USE;CLIMATE;ALPS;VARIABILITY;SEDIMENTOLOGY;MOVEMENT;MOISTURE;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	Climate variability during the Mid-Late Holocene has influenced the activity of geomorphic processes in the current periglacial belt of the Sierra Nevada. We studied two types of sedimentary records that reveal a synchronous timing for slope instability in this high semi-arid massif: solifluction landforms and mountain lake sediments. Lithological and sedimentological properties of both records have recorded numerous cycles of different magnitude of slope processes in the massif. Solifluction deposits record seven phases of solifluction activity and soil development during the last 7 ka BP and lake sediments show evidence of eight periods with increased geomorphic activity in the catchments over the last 6 ka BP. Although present-day climate conditions do not promote active solifluction processes in the Sierra Nevada, colder and wetter periods during the Holocene triggered solifluction and transported coarse-grained sediments into the lakes. By contrast, warm phases favoured soil formation and spread an incipient vegetation cover over the headwaters of the highest valleys, diminishing the grain size of the particles reaching the lakes. Lake sediments record an aridification trend in the massif intensifying since 4.2 ka BP that has conditioned solifluction activity to shift gradually to higher elevations. During major cooler phases such as the Little Ice Age active solifluction was recorded back down to 2500 m altitude. Copyright (C) 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0197-9337	 	"[Oliva, Marc] Univ Lisbon, Inst Geog & Territorial Planning, P-1699 Lisbon, Portugal. [Oliva, Marc; Gomez Ortiz, Antonio] Univ Barcelona, Landscape Res & Mediterranean Mt Palaeoenvironm R, Barcelona, Spain. [Schulte, Lothar] Univ Barcelona, Dept Phys & Reg Geog, Fluvalps Res Grp, Barcelona, Spain.; Oliva, M (reprint author), Univ Lisbon, Inst Geog & Territorial Planning, P-1699 Lisbon, Portugal.; oliva_marc@yahoo.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1002/esp.2116	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Oliva,Marc;Schulte,Lothar;Gomez Ortiz,Antonio"	Morphometry and Late Holocene Activity of Solifluction Landforms in the Sierra Nevada, Southern Spain	Permafrost and Periglacial Processes	Permafrost Periglacial Processes	2009	OCT-DEC	20	4	369	382	"Late Holocene;morphometry;seasonally frozen layer;solifluction lobes;Sierra Nevada;YUKON-TERRITORY;ROCK GLACIERS;KLUANE RANGE;SWISS ALPS;CANADA;LOBES;GELIFLUCTION;MOVEMENT;MOISTURE;VALLEY;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	Numerous solifluction landforms in two valleys of the western part of the Sierra Nevada range in the southern Iberian Peninsula were classified according to morphology and used to reconstruct solifluction activity for the Late Holocene. Lobes are almost inactive under the current semiarid climate and water availability appears to be the crucial control on activity within the high-elevation Study areas. The presence of numerous inactive solifluction lobes suggests that past climate conditions must have been more favourable for lobe development. Chronostratigraphic profiles of several lobes indicate that colder and/or wetter periods (e.g. the Little Ice Age) tend to promote slope movements, with sparser vegetation cover and higher solifluction rates whereas a denser vegetation cover spreads across valley floors and soils develop during warmer periods (e.g. the Medieval Warm Period). Copyright (C) 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1045-6740	 	"[Oliva, Marc; Schulte, Lothar; Gomez Ortiz, Antonio] Univ Barcelona, Dept Phys & Reg Geog, Landscape Res Lab, Barcelona 08001, Spain.; Oliva, M (reprint author), Univ Barcelona, Dept Phys & Reg Geog, Landscape Res Lab, Montalegre 6-8, Barcelona 08001, Spain.; oliva_marc@yahoo.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1002/ppp.645	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Olive,Marc;Gomez Ortiz,Antonio;Palacios Estremera,David;Salvador Franch,Ferran;Salva Catarineu,Monserrat"	The Quaternary in the Massif of the Sierra Nevada. Evolution Paleoenvironmental and Landscape from the Interpretation of Natural Logs and Documents of Time	Scripta Nova-Revista Electronica De Geografia Y Ciencias Sociales	 	2014	Apr-01	18	472	1	42	"Sierra Nevada;last glaciation;deglaciation;Holocene;little ice age;natural records;documentary sources;landscape;LAST GLACIAL MAXIMUM;SOUTHERN SPAIN;CLIMATE VARIABILITY;IBERIAN;PENINSULA;LATE PLEISTOCENE;MEDITERRANEAN MOUNTAINS;ICE-AGE;VEGETATION;RECORD;HISTORY;Geography ER"	Knowledge to the Quaternary environmental evolution in the mountains of the Iberian Peninsula has advanced substantially in recent decades. Particularly significant are the progress made in the Sierra Nevada massif, in the southern peninsular. In this case, researchers have used natural records and documentary sources to reconstruct the environmental dynamics from the last glaciation and subsequent deglaciation of the massif to their recent evolution. Detected environmental changes can induce climate variability during the past millennia. The impact of human activity on the peaks of the Sierra Nevada has been significant for the upper Holocene, particularly from the Muslim occupation.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1138-9788	 	"[Olive, Marc] Univ Lisbon, Inst Geog & Ordenamento Terr, Lisbon, Portugal. [Gomez Ortiz, Antonio; Salvador Franch, Ferran] Univ Barcelona, Dept Geog Phys & Anal Geog Reg, E-08007 Barcelona, Spain. [Palacios Estremera, David] Univ Complutense Madrid, Dept Reg Geog Anal & Phys Geog, E-28040 Madrid, Spain.; Olive, M (reprint author), Univ Lisbon, Inst Geog & Ordenamento Terr, Lisbon, Portugal.; oliva_marc@yahoo.com; gomez@ub.edu; davidp@ghis.ucn.es; fsalvador@ub.edu; salva@ub.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Ortigosa,Angel L.;Gomez,Jose M."	Differences in the diversity and composition of the pollinator assemblage of two co-flowering congeneric alpine wallflowers, Erysimum nevadense and E. baeticum	Flora	 	2010	 	205	4	266	275	"Pollinator diversity;Floral traits;Erysimum nevadense;E. baeticum baeticum;Alpine plants;Pollination generalization;HORMATHOPHYLLA-SPINOSA CRUCIFERAE;GEOMETRIC MORPHOMETRICS;REPRODUCTIVE;SUCCESS;BEETLE POLLINATION;HIGH-MOUNTAIN;MT OLYMPOS;PLANT;SYSTEM;MEDIOHISPANICUM;SPECIALIZATION;Plant Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Many alpine plants display a generalist pollination system where almost any available flower visitor could act as a legitimate pollinator. Co-flowering related plant species displaying a generalized pollination system can decrease their fitness due to interspecific mating. In this study, we determine the difference in diversity and composition of the pollination systems of two co-occurring species endemic to the alpine region of the Sierra Nevada (SE Spain), Erysimum nevadense Reut. and Erysimum baeticum baeticum (Heywood) Polatschek (Brassicaceae), and check for the potential role of floral and plant traits in explaining the observed differences. For this, we labeled 30 plants in two populations of each plant species located in the same area. We determined flower visitor assemblage by sampling all insects approaching the flowers and contacting the sexual organs during 60-min surveys. We found that the diversity of the pollinator assemblage was similar between the two studied wallflower species, both species showing a much generalized pollination system. However, the composition of the pollinator assemblage was different, since the flowers of E. nevadense were visited mostly by beetles and in a lesser extent by hover-flies, whereas the flowers of E. baeticum baeticum were visited mostly by ants and bees. Interestingly, flower traits varied between species, with E. nevadense displaying yellow, smaller and shallower flowers and E. baeticum baeticum displaying purple, large and deeper flowers. These findings suggest that differences in floral traits can explain the observed differences in the composition of the pollinator assemblage between both wallflower species. (C) 2009 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0367-2530	 	"[Ortigosa, Angel L.; Gomez, Jose M.] UGR, Dpto Ecol, Granada, Spain.; Gomez, JM (reprint author), UGR, Dpto Ecol, Granada, Spain.; alocanca@yahoo.es; jmgreyes@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.flora.2009.04.005	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Oster,Jessica L.;Montanez,Isabel P.;Mertz-Kraus,Regina;Sharp,Warren D.;Stock,Greg M.;Spero,Howard J.;Tinsley,John;Zachos,James C."	Millennial-scale variations in western Sierra Nevada precipitation during the last glacial cycle MIS 4/3 transition	Quaternary Research	Quatern.Res.	2014	JUL	82	1	236	248	"Speleothem;Sierra Nevada;Dansgaard-Oeschger cycles;MIS 3;MIS 4;ATLANTIC THERMOHALINE CIRCULATION;STABLE-ISOTOPE VARIATIONS;ICE-AGE;TERMINATIONS;RAPID CLIMATE-CHANGE;CALCITE FABRICS;UNITED-STATES;GREAT-BASIN;HALF-LIVES;NORTHERN-HEMISPHERE;SEASONAL-VARIATIONS;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	Dansgaard-Oeschger (D-O) cycles had far-reaching effects on Northern Hemisphere and tropical climate systems during the last glacial period, yet the climatic response to D-O cycles in western North America is controversial, especially prior to 55 ka. We document changes in precipitation along the western slope of the central Sierra Nevada during early Marine Oxygen Isotope Stages (MIS) 3 and 4 (55-67 ka) from a U-series dated speleothem record from McLean's Cave. The timing of our multi-proxy geochemical dataset is coeval with D-O interstadials (15-18) and stadials, including Heinrich Event 6. The McLean's Cave stalagmite indicates warmer and drier conditions during Greenland interstadials (GISs 15-18), signified by elevated delta O-18, delta C-13, reflectance, and trace element concentrations, and less radiogenic Sr-87/Sr-88. Our record extends evidence of a strong linkage between high-latitude warming and reduced precipitation in western North America to early MIS 3 and MIS 4. This record shows that the linkage persists in diverse global climate states, and documents the nature of the climatic response in central California to Heinrich Event 6. (C) 2014 University of Washington. Published by Elsevier Inc All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0033-5894	 	"[Oster, Jessica L.] Vanderbilt Univ, Nashville, TN USA. [Montanez, Isabel P.; Spero, Howard J.] Univ Calif Davis, Davis, CA 95616 USA. [Mertz-Kraus, Regina; Sharp, Warren D.] Berkeley Geochronol Ctr, Berkeley, CA USA. [Stock, Greg M.] Yosemite Natl Pk, Natl Pk Serv, Yosemite Village, CA USA. [Tinsley, John] US Geol Survey, Menlo Pk, CA 94025 USA. [Zachos, James C.] Univ Calif Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, CA 95064 USA.; Oster, JL (reprint author), 5726 Stevenson Ctr,7th Floor, Nashville, TN 37240 USA.; jessica.l.oster@vanderbilt.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.yqres.2014.04.010	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Padilla,Francisco M.;Vidal,Beatriz;Sanchez,Joaquin;Pugnaire,Francisco I."	Land-use changes and carbon sequestration through the twentieth century in a Mediterranean mountain ecosystem: Implications for land management	Journal of environmental management	J.Environ.Manage.	2010	DEC	91	12	2688	2695	"Agricultural abandonment;Ecosystem services;Mediterranean forests;Payments for ecosystem services;SE Spain;sustainability;COVER CHANGE;BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION;TERRESTRIAL ECOSYSTEMS;CLIMATE-CHANGE;NET ECOSYSTEM;WATER-VAPOR;FORESTS;SERVICES;CO2;EXCHANGE;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Ecosystems in the western Mediterranean basin have undergone intense changes in land use throughout the centuries, resulting in areas with severe alterations. Today, most these areas have become sensitive to human activity, prone to profound changes in land-use configuration and ecosystem services. A consensus exists amongst stakeholders that ecosystem services must be preserved but managerial strategies that help to preserve them while ensuring sustainability are often inadequate. To provide a basis for measuring implications of land-use change on carbon sequestration services, changes in land use and associated carbon sequestration potential throughout the 20th century in a rural area at the foothills of the Sierra Nevada range (SE Spain) were explored. We found that forest systems replaced dryland farming and pastures from the middle of the century onwards as a result of agricultural abandonment and afforestation programs. The area has always acted as a carbon sink with sequestration rates ranging from 28,961 t CO2 year(-1) in 1921 to 60,635 t CO2 year(-1) in 1995, mirroring changes in land use. Conversion from pastures to woodland, for example, accounted for an increase in carbon sequestration above 30,000 t CO2 year(-1) by the end of the century. However, intensive deforestation would imply a decrease of approximately 66% of the bulk CO2 fixed. In our study area, woodland conservation is essential to maintain the ecosystem services that underlie carbon sequestration. Our essay could inspire policymakers to better achieve goals of increasing carbon sequestration rates and sustainability within protected areas. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0301-4797	 	"[Padilla, Francisco M.; Vidal, Beatriz; Pugnaire, Francisco I.] CSIC, Estac Expt Zonas Aridas, E-04120 La Canada De San Urbano, Almeria, Spain. [Sanchez, Joaquin] SERFOSUR, Almeria 04005, Spain.; Padilla, FM (reprint author), Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Inst Water & Wetland Res, Dept Expt Plant Ecol, POB 9010, NL-6500 GL Nijmegen, Netherlands.; F.Padilla@science.ru.nl"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.jenvman.2010.07.031	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Palade,Bogdan;Serrano,Milagros"	Long-term high-frequency validation of MODIS LST products in a Mediterranean mountain environment	International Journal of Remote Sensing	Int.J.Remote Sens.	2014	Feb-01	35	3	818	829	"LAND-SURFACE TEMPERATURE;SPACE;Remote Sensing;Imaging Science & Photographic Technology ER"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0143-1161	 	"[Palade, Bogdan] European Union Satellite Ctr, Torrejon De Ardoz, Spain. [Serrano, Milagros] Univ Complutense Madrid, Fac Geog & Hist, Dept Anal Geog Reg & Geog Fis, Madrid, Spain.; Palade, B (reprint author), European Union Satellite Ctr, Torrejon De Ardoz, Spain.; Bogdan.Palade@satcen.europa.eu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1080/01431161.2013.873148	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Palenzuela,J. A.;Marsella,M.;Nardinocchi,C.;Perez,J. L.;Fernandez,T.;Chacon,J.;Irigaray,C."	Landslide detection and inventory by integrating LiDAR data in a GIS environment	Landslides	 	2015	DEC	12	6	1035	1050	"LiDAR data;GIS;DEMoD;Betic Cordillera;Spain;AIRBORNE LIDAR;SIERRA-NEVADA;SOUTHERN SPAIN;HAZARD;SUSCEPTIBILITY;RISK;MAPS;GRANADA;INFORMATION;Engineering;Geology ER"	In this work, a simple methodology is presented for processing high-resolution topographical data over wide areas. It is based on digital elevation model of differences (DEMoD) among high-resolution digital models (HRDEM) produced from light-detection and ranging (LiDAR) data. Because these qualitative approaches based on HRDEMs can be affected by errors related to misalignment between different passes of the airborne sensor and errors in classifying points, a simplified strategy was undertaken for their semi-automatic correction and supervision for analyzing geomorphological changes. Besides, it became possible to detect, delineate, and classify a total of 47 natural landslides and 50 slope-cut failures over an area of 234 km(2) on the basis of the analysis of the LiDAR products (DEMs and DEMoD) and the orthophotography imagery inspection integrated in a geographical information system (GIS). Most of the displacements detected were probably generated during the winter of 2009-2010 when a new record of cumulative rainfall was reached. The displacement rate of these movements cannot be known with precision, but the minimum velocity that can be obtained is 0.3 m/year regarding the period between the two data acquisitions carried out in November 2008 and July 2010. On the other hand, a comparison was made of the existing susceptibility maps with respect to this new inventory, which indicated greater landslide frequency in areas of moderate susceptibility levels. The influence of treating inventories at different temporal scales is discussed.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1612-510X	 	"[Palenzuela, J. A.; Chacon, J.; Irigaray, C.] Univ Granada, Dept Civil Engn, Granada, Spain. [Marsella, M.; Nardinocchi, C.] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dip Ingn Civile, Edile, Ambientale, I-00185 Rome, Italy. [Perez, J. L.; Fernandez, T.] Univ Jaen, Dept Cartog Geodet & Photogrammetr Engn, Jaen, Spain.; Irigaray, C (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Civil Engn, Granada, Spain.; clemente@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10346-014-0534-5	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Palenzuela,Javier;Azcon-Aguilar,Concepcion;Barea,Jose-Miguel;da Silva,Gladstone Alves;Oehl,Fritz"	Acaulospora viridis, a new species in the Glomeromycetes from two mountain ranges in Andalucia (Spain)	Nova Hedwigia	Nova Hedwigia	2014	 	99	01-Feb	71	82	"arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi;biodiversity;Glomeromycetes;mountainous grasslands;phylogeny;ARBUSCULAR MYCORRHIZAL FUNGUS;NATIONAL-PARK;SWISS ALPS;SP-NOV;ENDOGONACEAE;DIVERSITY;ALTITUDES;KOSKEI;Plant Sciences ER"	A new Acaulospora species was found in two adjacent mountains ranges in Andalucia (southern Spain), i.e. in Sierra Nevada National Park at 1270-3200 m asl around roots of Artemisia umbelliformis, Sorbus hybrida, Laserpitium longiradium among others, and in a shrubland and grassland at 1855-2028 m asl in the Sierra de Baza Natural Park. The fungus produced spores in single species cultures, using Sorghum vulgare or Trifolium pratense as bait plant. The new species was named A. viridis because of its greenish appearance under the dissecting and in the compound microscope. The spores have a smooth surface and are similar in size to several other Acaulospora species, such as A. koskei, A. laevis, A. capsicula, A. colliculosa and A. entreriana. However, the new species can easily be distinguished from all these fungi by the diagnostic staining of the middle wall in Melzer's reagent. Phylogenetic analyses of sequences obtained from the ITS and partial LSU of the ribosomal genes confirm the new species in a clearly separate clade within the Acaulosporaceae.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0029-5035	 	"[Palenzuela, Javier; Azcon-Aguilar, Concepcion; Barea, Jose-Miguel] CSIC, Dept Microbiol Suelo & Sistemas Simbiot, Estn Expt Zaidin, E-18008 Granada, Spain. [da Silva, Gladstone Alves] Univ Fed Pernambuco, CCB, Dept Micol, BR-50670420 Recife, PE, Brazil. [Oehl, Fritz] Agroscope, Fed Res Inst Sustainibil Sci, CH-8046 Zurich, Switzerland.; Oehl, F (reprint author), Agroscope, Fed Res Inst Sustainibil Sci, Reckenholzstr 191, CH-8046 Zurich, Switzerland.; fritz.oehl@agroscope.admin.ch"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1127/0029-503512014/0180	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Palenzuela,Javier;Azcon-Aguilar,Concepcion;Barea,Jose-Miguel;da Silva,Gladstone Alves;Oehl,Fritz"	Acaulospora pustulata and Acaulospora tortuosa, two new species in the Glomeromycota from Sierra Nevada National Park (southern Spain)	Nova Hedwigia	Nova Hedwigia	2013	 	97	03-Apr	305	319	"Glomeromycetes;alpine grasslands;biodiversity;conservation;phylogeny;arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi;soil type;SWISS ALPS;ENTROPHOSPORA;DIVERSITY;GENERA;BRASILIENSIS;ENDOGONACEAE;ECOSYSTEMS;ALTITUDES;REVISION;Plant Sciences ER"	Two new Acaulospora species were found in two wet mountainous grassland ecosystems of Sierra Nevada National Park (Spain), living in the rhizosphere of two endangered plants, Ophioglossum vulgatum and Narcissus nevadensis, which co-occurred with other plants like Holcus lanatus, Trifolium repens, Mentha suaveolens and Carum verticillatum, in soils affected by ground water flow. The two fungi produced spores in pot cultures, using O. vulgatum, N. nevadensis, H. lanatus and T repens as bait plants. Acaulospora pustulata has a pustulate spore ornamentation similar to that of Diversispora pustulata, while A. tortuosa has surface projections that resemble innumerous hyphae-like structures that are more rudimentary than the hyphae-like structures known for spores of Sacculospora baltica or Glomus tortuosum. Phylogenetic analyses of sequences of the ITS and partial LSU of the ribosomal genes reveal that both fungi are new species within the Acaulosporaceae. They are most closely related to A. alpina and undescribed Acaulospora species. With 45-72 lam spore size, Acaulospora pustulata is the smallest Acaulospora species known so far, while A. tortuosa has slightly larger spores (61-84(-94) mu m), which is in the range known for several other Acaulospora species like A. longula, A. alpina, A. nivalis and A. sieverdingii that have either smooth or pitted spore surfaces. These two fungi might play an important role in helping their endangered hosts O. vulgatum and N. nevadensis to survive under the stressed environments of the high mountains of Sierra Nevada.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0029-5035	 	"[Palenzuela, Javier; Azcon-Aguilar, Concepcion; Barea, Jose-Miguel] CSIC, Estn Expt Zaidin, Dept Microbiol Suelo & Sistemas Simbiot, E-18008 Granada, Spain. [da Silva, Gladstone Alves] Univ Fed Pernambuco, CCB, Dept Micol, BR-50670420 Recife, PE, Brazil. [Oehl, Fritz] Fed Res Inst Agroscope Reckenholz Tanikon ART, CH-8046 Zurich, Switzerland.; Oehl, F (reprint author), Fed Res Inst Agroscope Reckenholz Tanikon ART, Reckenholzstr 191, CH-8046 Zurich, Switzerland.; fritz.oehl@agroscope.admin.ch"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1127/0029-5035/2013/0129	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Palenzuela,Javier;Miguel Barea,Jose;Ferrol,Nuria;Azcon-Aguilar,Concepcion;Oehl,Fritz"	Entrophospora nevadensis, a new arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus from Sierra Nevada National Park (southeastern Spain)	Mycologia	Mycologia	2010	MAY-JUN	102	3	624	632	"arbuscular mycorrhiza;Diversisporaceae;endangered plant species;endemism;Entrophosporaceae;Glomeromycota;MEDITERRANEAN BASIN;PLANT BIODIVERSITY;GLOMALES;GENERA;GENUS;CONSERVATION;ARCHAEOSPORA;DIVERSITY;ALIGNMENT;Mycology ER"	A new fungal species in the arbuscular mycorrhiza-forming Glomeromycetes, Entrophospora nevadensis, was isolated from soil near the roots of several endemic and endangered plant species (e.g. Plantago nivalis and Alchemilla fontqueri) growing in Sierra Nevada National Park (Granada, Andalucia, Spain). The fungus was propagated in trap cultures on Plantago nivalis and Sorbus hybrida and in pure cultures on Trifolium pratense and Sorghum vulgare. Spores are yellow brown to brown, 90-115 mu m diam and form singly in soil, in the neck of adherent sporiferous saccules that form either terminally or intercalary on mycelial hyphae. Spores have two three-layered walls and conspicuous, 6-12 mu m long, spiny, thorn-like projections on the outer wall consisting of hyaline to subhyaline, evanescent tips and yellow brown to brown, persistent bases. In aging spores these projections are usually shorter (1-2.8 mu m) and dome-shaped or rounded, sometimes with a central pit on top where the evanescent tip has sloughed off. Molecular analysis with partial sequences of the 18S ribosomal gene places the fungus within the Diversisporales. The new fungus was found in soil near plants with different living strategies but growing in high altitude soils with acidic pH, high soil moisture and organic carbon content, and close to streams.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0027-5514	 	"[Palenzuela, Javier; Miguel Barea, Jose; Ferrol, Nuria; Azcon-Aguilar, Concepcion] CSIC, Dept Microbiol Suelo Sistemas & Simbiot, Estac Expt Zaidin, E-18008 Granada, Spain. [Oehl, Fritz] Agroscope Reckenholz Tanikon Res Stn ART, Ecol Farming Syst, CH-8046 Zurich, Switzerland.; Azcon-Aguilar, C (reprint author), CSIC, Dept Microbiol Suelo Sistemas & Simbiot, Estac Expt Zaidin, Profesor Albareda 1, E-18008 Granada, Spain.; conchi.azcon@eez.csic.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3852/09-145	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Palenzuelal,Javier;Azcon-Aguilar,Concepcion;Berea,Jose-Miguel;da Silva,Gladstone Alves;Oehl,Fritz"	Acaulospora baetica, a new arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal species from two mountain ranges in Andalucia (Spain)	Nova Hedwigia	Nova Hedwigia	2015	 	101	03-Apr	463	474	"arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi;biodiversity;endangered plant species;endemisms;Glomeromycetes;high Mediterranean mountains;phylogeny;SWISS ALPS;WEST-AFRICA;GLOMEROMYCOTA;ENDOGONACEAE;COMMUNITIES;DIVERSITY;ALTITUDES;ALPINE;BRAZIL;ANDES;Plant Sciences ER"	A new Acaulospora species, A. baetica, was found in two adjacent mountain ranges in Andalucia (southern Spain), i.e. in several mountainous plant communities of Sierra Nevada National Park at 1580-2912 m asl around roots of the endangered and/or endemic plants Sorbus hybrida, Artemisia umbelliformis, Hippocrepis nevadensis, Laserpitium longiradiuni and Pinguicula nevadensis, and in two Mediterranean shrublands of Sierra de Baza Natural Park at 1380-1855 m asl around roots of Prunus ramburii, Rosmarinus officinalis, Thymus mastichina and Lavandula latifolia among others. The fungus produced spores in single species cultures, using Sorghum vulgare or Trifolium pratense as bait plant. The spores are 69-96 x 65-92 gm in diameter, brownish creamy to light brown, often appearing with a grayish tint in the dissecting microscope. They have a pitted surface (pit sizes about 0.8-1.6 x 0.7-1.4 gm in diameter and 0.6-1.3 gm deep), and are similar in size to several other Acaulospora species with pitted spore surfaces, such as A. nivalis, A. paulinae and A. sieverdingii, but smaller than A. minuta, A. puncatata and A. scrobicttlata. The new species can be distinguished from all these fungi by the combination of surface ornamentation, spore color and spore size. Phylogenetic analyses of sequences obtained from the ITS and partial LSU of the ribosomal gene confirm the new species in a separate clade within the Acaulosporaceae, close to A. nivalis, A. paulinae and A. sieverdingii. The phylogenetically most closely related fungus to A. baetica, however, is A. ignota, a species that does not have any pits, but innumerous inconspicuous warts and flattened elevations on the spore surface.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0029-5035	 	"[Palenzuelal, Javier; Azcon-Aguilar, Concepcion; Berea, Jose-Miguel] CSIC, Estn Expt Zaidin, Dept Microbiol Suelo & Sistemas Simbiot, E-18008 Granada, Spain. [da Silva, Gladstone Alves; Oehl, Fritz] Univ Fed Pernambuco, CCB, Dept Micol, BR-50740600 Recife, PE, Brazil. [Oehl, Fritz] Fed Res Inst Sustainabil Sci, Agroscope, CH-8046 Zurich, Switzerland.; Oehl, F (reprint author), Univ Fed Pernambuco, CCB, Dept Micol, BR-50740600 Recife, PE, Brazil.; fritz.oehl@agroscope.admin.ch"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1127/nova_hedwigia/2015/0285	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Palomo,Ignacio;Martin-Lopez,Berta;Alcorlo,Paloma;Montes,Carlos"	Limitations of Protected Areas Zoning in Mediterranean Cultural Landscapes Under the Ecosystem Services Approach	Ecosystems	Ecosystems	2014	NOV	17	7	1202	1215	"cultural landscapes;ecosystem service bundles;mapping;social-ecological system;trade-offs;TRADITIONAL ECOLOGICAL KNOWLEDGE;LAND-USE CHANGE;SW SPAIN;CONSERVATION STRATEGIES;SOUTHWESTERN SPAIN;BIODIVERSITY;MANAGEMENT;DONANA;TRADEOFFS;RESILIENCE;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Protected areas have been created worldwide to set apart certain areas from land-use transformation. The biodiversity and ecosystems protected by these areas deliver several ecosystem services. Recently, besides increasing global protected coverage, there has been a growing demand to assess the adequacy of protected areas management. In this study, we assessed how the management of protected areas can deal with ecosystem services taking as example the Don ana and Sierra Nevada protected areas (Spain). For that aim we analyzed the protected area management plans, mapped seven ecosystem services, and assessed how they are affected by protected area zoning and land-use intensity. We found that although provisioning and cultural services are included in the management plans of the protected areas under a different terminology, regulating services are barely addressed. Ecosystem service delivery varies depending on several factors including the protection category of the protected areas (protection intensity), land-use intensity and geomorphological factors, among others. Therefore, we discuss that integrating ecosystem services in protected area management requires dealing with complexity, necessitating the establishment of specific goals for ecosystem service delivery, which include ecosystem service synergies and trade-offs.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1432-9840	 	"[Palomo, Ignacio] Basque Ctr Climate Change, Bilbao 48008, Spain. [Palomo, Ignacio; Martin-Lopez, Berta; Alcorlo, Paloma; Montes, Carlos] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Dept Ecol, Social Ecol Syst Lab, Madrid, Spain.; Palomo, I (reprint author), Basque Ctr Climate Change, Alameda Urquijo 4, Bilbao 48008, Spain.; ignacio.palomo@uam.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10021-014-9788-y	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Pascual,Emilio;Donaire,Teodosio;Pin,Christian"	The significance of microgranular enclaves in assessing the magmatic evolution of a high-level composite batholith: A case on the Los Pedroches Batholith, Iberian Massif, Spain	Geochemical Journal	Geochem.J.	2008	 	42	2	177	198	"microgranular enclave;granodiorite;monzogranite;Los Pedroches batholith;Iberian Massif;CENTRAL SIERRA-NEVADA;GRANITIC MAGMAS;SOUTHEASTERN AUSTRALIA;TONALITIC ENCLAVES;CONTINENTAL-CRUST;MAFIC ENCLAVES;HYBRID MAGMA;ROCKS;ORIGIN;CALIFORNIA;Geochemistry & Geophysics ER"	To evaluate the origin and significance of microgranular enclaves hosted by granites, we present new data on two granitoid series belonging to the Los Pedroches Batholith (LPB), SW Iberian Massif, Spain. The two series in the LPB show a distinct contrast in terms of field, petrographic, mineralogical and geochemical data. This contrast also extends to the enclaves, differing in abundance and other features in each of the series considered. Isotopic measurements, however, including Sr-87/Sr-86, Eld and delta O-18 data, show no significant, inter- or intra-series contrast throughout the LPB. These data lend additional support to an origin of all the granitoid rocks in the LPB from a single, isotopically homogeneous, lower crustal source. We also suggest that differences between microgranular enclaves in the two LPB granitoid series cannot be related to a different degree of participation of mafic rocks in the genesis of the respective groups: in both cases, microgranular enclaves are better interpreted as autoliths.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0016-7002	 	"[Pascual, Emilio; Donaire, Teodosio] Univ Huelva, Dept Geol, Huelva 21070, Spain. [Pin, Christian] Univ Clermont Ferrand, CNRS, Dept Geol, UMR 6524, F-63038 Clermont Ferrand, France.; Donaire, T (reprint author), Univ Huelva, Dept Geol, Campus Univ Carmen,Avda Fuerzas Armadas S-N, Huelva 21070, Spain.; donaire@uhu.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Pascual,Javier;Blanco,Silvia;Garcia-Lopez,Marina;Garcia-Salamanca,Adela;Bursakov,Sergey A.;Genilloud,Olga;Bills,Gerald F.;Ramos,Juan L.;van Dillewijn,Pieter"	Assessing Bacterial Diversity in the Rhizosphere of Thymus zygis Growing in the Sierra Nevada National Park (Spain) through Culture-Dependent and Independent Approaches	Plos One	 	2016	Jan-07	11	1	e0146558	e0146558	"16S RIBOSOMAL-RNA;SOIL MICROBIAL COMMUNITIES;ELEVATED ATMOSPHERIC CO2;ESSENTIAL OIL QUALITY;PYROSEQUENCING REVEALS;SEQUENCE-ANALYSIS;RARE;BIOSPHERE;DARK-MATTER;DEEP-SEA;GENE;Science & Technology - Other Topics ER"	Little is known of the bacterial communities associated with the rhizosphere of wild plant species found in natural settings. The rhizosphere bacterial community associated with wild thyme, Thymus zygis L., plants was analyzed using cultivation, the creation of a near-full length 16S rRNA gene clone library and 454 amplicon pyrosequencing. The bacterial community was dominated by Proteobacteria (mostly Alphaproteobacteria and Betaproteobacteria), Actinobacteria, Acidobacteria, and Gemmatimonadetes. Although each approach gave a different perspective of the bacterial community, all classes/subclasses detected in the clone library and the cultured bacteria could be found in the pyrosequencing datasets. However, an exception caused by inconclusive taxonomic identification as a consequence of the short read length of pyrotags together with the detection of singleton sequences which corresponded to bacterial strains cultivated from the same sample highlight limitations and considerations which should be taken into account when analysing and interpreting amplicon datasets. Amplicon pyrosequencing of replicate rhizosphere soil samples taken a year later permit the definition of the core microbiome associated with Thymus zygis plants. Abundant bacterial families and predicted functional profiles of the core microbiome suggest that themain drivers of the bacterial community in the Thymus zygis rhizosphere are related to the nutrients originating from the plant root and to their participation in biogeochemical cycles thereby creating an intricate relationship with this aromatic plant to allow for a feedback ecological benefit.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1932-6203	 	"[Pascual, Javier; Blanco, Silvia; Garcia-Salamanca, Adela; Bursakov, Sergey A.; Ramos, Juan L.; van Dillewijn, Pieter] CSIC, Estn Expt Zaidin, Granada, Spain. [Pascual, Javier; Garcia-Lopez, Marina; Genilloud, Olga; Bills, Gerald F.] MEDINA Fdn, Ctr Excellence Innovat Med Res, Granada, Spain.; van Dillewijn, P (reprint author), CSIC, Estn Expt Zaidin, Granada, Spain.; pieter.vandillewijn@eez.csic.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1371/journal.pone.0146558	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Pascual,Javier;Garcia-Lopez,Marina;Carmona,Cristina;Sousa,Thiciana da S.;de Pedro,Nuria;Cautain,Bastien;Martin,Jesus;Vicente,Francisca;Reyes,Fernando;Bills,Gerald F.;Genilloud,Olga"	Pseudomonas soli sp nov., a novel producer of xantholysin congeners	Systematic and applied microbiology	Syst.Appl.Microbiol.	2014	SEP	37	6	412	416	"Pseudomonas soli sp nov.;Diffusion sandwich system;Sierra Nevada National Park;Multilocus sequence analysis;Cytotoxic activity;HIF pathway;Lipodepsipeptide;Xantholysin;MULTILOCUS SEQUENCE-ANALYSIS;GENUS;RECLASSIFICATION;ACID;Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology;Microbiology ER"	A chemoorganotrophic Gram-negative bacterium was isolated by means of a diffusion sandwich system from a soil sample from the Sierra Nevada National Park, Spain. Strain F-279,208(T) was oxidase and catalase positive, strictly aerobic, non-spore-forming and motile by single polar flagellum. Phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA, gyrB, rpoB and rpoD genes revealed that strain F-279,208(T) belongs to the Pseudomonas putida group with Pseudomonas mosselii and Pseudomonas entomophila as its closest relatives. DNA-DNA hybridization assays and phenotypic traits confirmed that this strain belongs to a novel species of the genus Pseudomonas, for which the name Pseudomonas soli sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is F-279,208(T) (=DSM 28043(T) = LMG 27941(T)), and during fermentation it produces xantholysins, a family of lipodepsipeptides. The major compound, xantholysin A, showed an interesting activity in a RCC4 kidney tumor cell line with inactivation of VHL linked with the HIF pathway, without any cytotoxic effects against other human tumor cell lines tested including, liver, pancreas and breast. (C) 2014 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0723-2020	 	"[Pascual, Javier; Garcia-Lopez, Marina; Carmona, Cristina; Sousa, Thiciana da S.; de Pedro, Nuria; Cautain, Bastien; Martin, Jesus; Vicente, Francisca; Reyes, Fernando; Bills, Gerald F.; Genilloud, Olga] Fdn MEDINA, E-18016 Granada, Spain.; Genilloud, O (reprint author), Fdn MEDINA, Ave Conocimiento,3 Parque Tecnol Ciencias Salud, E-18016 Granada, Spain.; olga.genilloud@medinaandalucia.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.syapm.2014.07.003	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Passerin D'Entreves,Pietro;Roggero,Angela"	The first case of gynandromorphism in Enolmis (Lepidoptera: Gelechioidea: Scythrididae)	Acta Entomologica Musei Nationalis Pragae	 	2013	 	53	1	369	380	"Lepidoptera;Soythrididae;Enolmis;developmental patterns;genitalia;gynandromorph;Spain;SEX DETERMINATION;MALE GENITALIA;MORPHOLOGY;DROSOPHILA;NOCTUIDAE;ASYMMETRY;EVOLUTION;DUCTS;Entomology ER"	Gynandromorphism (i.e., organisms with both male and female characteristics) is a rare and interesting phenomenon that has been recorded for several taxa within Insecta, Crustacea, and Ayes since the early 20th century. Recently, interest in this phenomenon has been revived, due to its potential contribution to elucidation of developmental mechanisms. Within insects, gynandromorphism includes several examples in Lepidoptera (mainly in the Macrolepidoptera). Yet, it is rare in the far less strikingly sexually dimorphic Microlepidoptera, mainly because it is harder to use external features to recognize gynandromorphs in this taxon. Here, we describe the first known case of gynandromorphism in Scythrididae, belonging to the genus Enolmis Duponchel, 1845. Enolmis species have light coloured external features, asymmetrical male genitalia, and developed henia in females. The different parts of male and female genitalia present in the Enolmis gynandromorph individual are described here.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0374-1036	 	"[Passerin D'Entreves, Pietro; Roggero, Angela] Univ Turin, Dept Life Sci & Syst Biol, I-10123 Turin, Italy.; Roggero, A (reprint author), Univ Turin, Dept Life Sci & Syst Biol, Via Accademia Albertina 13, I-10123 Turin, Italy.; pietro.passerin@unito.it; angela.roggero@unito.it"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Pedrera,Antonio;Galindo-Zaldivar,Jesus;Lamas,Francisco;Ruiz-Constan,Ana"	Evolution of near-surface ramp-flat-ramp normal faults and implication during intramontane basin formation in the eastern Betic Cordillera (the Huercal-Overa Basin, SE Spain)	Tectonics	 	2012	Aug-23	31	 	TC4024	TC4024	"NEVADO-FILABRIDE COMPLEX;ALBORAN DOMAIN BETICS;METAMORPHIC CORE;COMPLEXES;WESTERN SIERRA-NEVADA;ANGLE NORMAL FAULTS;GIBRALTAR ARC;ALPUJARRIDE NAPPES;EXTENSIONAL TECTONICS;SOUTHERN SPAIN;DETACHMENT;FAULTS;Geochemistry & Geophysics ER"	The nucleation, propagation, and associated folding of ramp-flat-ramp normal faults were analyzed from field examples developed in a brittle/ductile multilayer sequence of the Huercal-Overa Basin (SE Spain). Gently dipping sandy silt layers, which display a low cohesive strength (C-0 = 7 kPa, mu = 34 degrees), favor the development of extensional detachments. A tectonic origin instead of a possible gravitational origin is supported by the perpendicularity between the paleoslope direction of the fluvial-deltaic environment inferred from imbricated pebbles, and the senses of movement deduced from fault slicken-lines. The link between high-angle normal faults (HANFs) - formed at different levels in the layered sequence-with horizontal fault segments comes to develop ramp-flat-ramp normal faults with associated roll-over in the hanging wall. Observed extensional duplexes are formed by parallel detachments connected through synthetic Riedel faults. These Riedel faults would produce the back-rotation of the individual blocks (horses), i.e., extensional folding of the originally subhorizontal layers. There is no correlation between the analyzed ramp-flat-ramp normal faults, accommodating south-southeastward extension during Serravallian-lower Tortonian, and either the regional Alpujarride/Nevado-Filabride west-directed extensional shear zone or the top-to-the-north detachments within Alpujarride units, which are clearly sealed by Serravallian-lower Tortonian sediments. Therefore, the studied normal faults are restricted to the brittle/ductile multilayer fluvio/deltaic sequence and accommodate moderate late extension instead of belonging to a large crustal extensional system connected with a regional detachment at depth. Therefore, the basin formed in a moderate crustal thickness context where small and medium-scale extensional systems were subordinate structures. These natural examples support the development of low-angle normal faults at very shallow crustal levels in multilayer sequences with suitable rheological conditions.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0278-7407	 	"[Pedrera, Antonio] Inst Geol & Minero Espana, E-18006 Granada, Spain. [Galindo-Zaldivar, Jesus] Univ Granada, Dept Geodinam, Granada, Spain. [Galindo-Zaldivar, Jesus] CSIC Univ Granada, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra, Granada, Spain. [Lamas, Francisco] Univ Granada, Dept Ingn Civil, Granada, Spain. [Ruiz-Constan, Ana] Univ Montpellier 2, Montpellier, France.; Pedrera, A (reprint author), Inst Geol & Minero Espana, C Alcazar de Genil 4, E-18006 Granada, Spain.; pedrera@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1029/2012TC003130	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Pedrera,Antonio;Vicente Perez-Pena,Jose;Galindo-Zaldivar,Jesus;Miguel Azanon,Jose;Azor,Antonio"	Testing the sensitivity of geomorphic indices in areas of low-rate active folding (eastern Betic Cordillera, Spain)	Geomorphology	Geomorphology	2009	Apr-15	105	03-Apr	218	231	"Active and recent tectonics;Low-rate folding;River incision;Alluvial fan;SLk index;Vf index;Hypsometric curve;Betic Cordillera;CURRENT PLATE MOTIONS;SE SPAIN;SOUTHEAST SPAIN;ALLUVIAL FANS;EXTENSIONAL TECTONICS;LATERAL PROPAGATION;LANDSCAPE RESPONSE;BASIN EVOLUTION;SIERRA-NEVADA;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	Active deformation structures have an incidence in topography that can be quantified by using geomorphic indices. Most of these indices have been checked in faulted regions with high-deformation rates. The application of several geomorphic indices (hypsometric curve analysis, normalized stream-length gradient, and valley width-to-valley height ratio) to the drainage network of the southern limb of the Sierra de Las Estancias antiform (Internal Zones, eastern Betic Cordillera), where low-rate active folding has been recognized, allows us to investigate the suitability of these indices to identify active structures in such a scenario. Hypsometric curves clearly identify regions with recent uplift and young topography, but they do not provide any constraint on the location of active folds. Local valley width-to-valley height index variations have been detected just coinciding whit the position of ENE-WSW active folds. Normalized stream-length gradient index serves to locate active folds in areas of hard rock substratum, but not in those areas with soft sediments (Neogene-Quaternary sedimentary basins). This is most likely due to the fact that in the basins erosion is much more intense than in the hard rock sectors. In view of these results. we consider that geomorphic indices constitute a valuable tool for identifying sectors affected by low-rate uplift related to active folding, with the best results obtained in hard rock areas. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0169-555X	 	"[Pedrera, Antonio; Vicente Perez-Pena, Jose; Galindo-Zaldivar, Jesus; Miguel Azanon, Jose; Azor, Antonio] Univ Granada, Dept Geodinam, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Galindo-Zaldivar, Jesus; Miguel Azanon, Jose] Univ Granada, CSIC, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Pedrera, A (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Geodinam, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; pedrera@ugr.es; vperez@ugr.es; jgalindo@ugr.es; jazanon@ugr.es; azor@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.geomorph.2008.09.026	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Penas,Julio;Lorite,Juan;Alba-Sanchez,Francisca;Angelica Taisma,Maria"	Self-incompatibility, floral parameters, and pollen characterization in the narrow endemic and threatened species Artemisia granatensis (Asteraceae)	Anales del Jardin Botanico de Madrid	An.Jard.Bot.Madrid	2011	JAN-JUN	68	1	97	105	"reproductive biology;pollen-tube growth;endemic and threatened species;conservation;BREEDING SYSTEM;SIERRA-NEVADA;POLLINATION;SPAIN;RARE;REPRODUCTION;LIMITATION;PATTERNS;SENECIO;PLANTS;Plant Sciences ER"	Penas, J., Lorite, J., Alba-Sanchez, F. & Taisma, M. A. 2011. Self-incompatibility, floral parameters, and pollen characterization in the narrow endemic and threatened species Artemisia granatensis (Asteraceae). Anales Jard. Bot. Madrid 68(1): 97-105. Artemisia granatensis Boiss. is a paradigmatic species for plant conservation in Spain and Europe. It is a critically endangered (CR) endemic species growing above 2500 m in the Sierra Nevada (southern Spain). Natural populations have been considerably devastated in the past due to intensive human exploitation for folk medicine. The sparse available data concerning the reproductive biology of this species under natural conditions indicate a low reproductive success. To provide additional information on the reproductive biology of A. granatensis, and consequently information useful for the management and conservation of this species, we studied the breeding system through pollen-tube growth. In addition, some floral and pollen traits were recorded. No differences were found between populations in terms of the morphological traits of flowers and inflorescences. A. granatensis is an anemophilous species, and the data indicate that pollen transfer may be limited between isolated populations, and so contributing to an extremely low fruit-set. Results show A. granatensis is self-incompatible, probably with a sporophytic self-incompatibility system, and with no evidence of partial self-incompatibility. Reproductive traits, related to pollen morphology and settling speed may explain the low rate of recruitment in the small populations separated by geographical barriers.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0211-1322	 	"[Penas, Julio; Lorite, Juan; Alba-Sanchez, Francisca] Univ Granada, Dept Bot, Plant Conservat Unit, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Angelica Taisma, Maria] Cent Univ Venezuela, Ctr Bot Trop, Inst Expt Biol, Caracas, Venezuela.; Penas, J (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Bot, Plant Conservat Unit, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jgiles@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3989/ajbm.2276	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Pepin,E.;Carretier,S.;Herail,G."	Erosion dynamics modelling in a coupled catchment-fan system with constant external forcing	Geomorphology	Geomorphology	2010	Oct-01	122	01-Feb	78	90	"Mountain-fan system;Erosion;Natural entrenchment;DRAINAGE-BASIN EVOLUTION;BRAIDED-STREAM MODEL;CANYON ALLUVIAL-FAN;DEATH-VALLEY;SEDIMENT-FLUX;LANDSCAPE MORPHOLOGY;SOUTHEAST SPAIN;SIERRA-NEVADA;CALIFORNIA;RIVER;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	Recent alluvial fan models have suggested that deep alluvial fan entrenchment could occur without any change in sediment and water influx. Moreover, other studies have shown that the evolution of a fan could strongly depend on feedback between the fan and the mountain catchment. We evaluate if natural entrenchment still occurs in a coupled catchment-fan system, and we evaluate its possible impact on the evolution of mountain erosion. We use a landscape evolution model where the mountain corresponds to an uplifting block and where fans form over an initial horizontal surface. Our experiments confirm that deep entrenchment at the fan apex can occur without a change in climate or in uplift rate under two conditions: (1) the transport threshold (critical shear stress) is significant and (2) the downstream boundary condition corresponds to an open boundary with fixed elevation, which stops the progradation of alluvial fans. A stable entrenchment occurs when sediments reach this limit. The entrenchment can be explained by a strong nonlinear dependence of the transport law on the slope when the shear stress is close to critical. A fan slope increase occurs when sediments reach the model limit, and this drives entrenchment. Fan entrenchment drives strong erosion in the mountain with intensity and a response time similar to those observed for the initial mountain uplift. These results indicate that determining how much of natural erosion is from autogenic mechanisms is essential in order to link landscape entrenchment with past external changes. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0169-555X	 	"[Pepin, E.; Carretier, S.; Herail, G.] Univ Toulouse, LMTG, CNRS, IRD,OMP, F-31400 Toulouse, France.; Pepin, E (reprint author), Univ Toulouse, LMTG, CNRS, IRD,OMP, 14 Av E Belin, F-31400 Toulouse, France.; pepin@lmtg.obs-mip.fr"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.geomorph.2010.04.029	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Peredo,Elena L.;Angeles Revilla,M.;Jimenez-Alfaro,Borja;Bueno,Alvaro;Cires,Eduardo;Fernandez Prieto,J. Antonio;Abbott,Richard J."	APPLICATIONS OF MOLECULAR MARKERS PRIOR CONSERVATION ACTIONS ON THE SPANISH ENDEMIC Senecio boissieri	Cryoletters	 	2009	SEP-OCT	30	5	391	391	"alpine plant;cpDNA;genetic diversity;plant dispersal;population fragmentation;RAPD;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Physiology ER"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0143-2044	 	"[Peredo, Elena L.; Angeles Revilla, M.; Cires, Eduardo; Fernandez Prieto, J. Antonio] Univ Oviedo, Dept Plant Physiol, E-33071 Oviedo, Spain. [Jimenez-Alfaro, Borja; Bueno, Alvaro] Jardin Bot Atlantico, Gijon 33394, Spain. [Abbott, Richard J.] Univ St Andrews, Sch Biol, St Andrews KY16 9TH, Fife, Scotland.; elperedo.uo@uniovi.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Peredo,Elena L.;Angeles Revilla,M.;Jimenez-Alfaro,Borja;Bueno,Alvaro;Fernandez Prieto,J. Antonio;Abbott,Richard J."	Historical biogeography of a disjunctly distributed, Spanish alpine plant, Senecio boissieri (Asteraceae)	Taxon	Taxon	2009	AUG	58	3	883	892	"alpine plant;cpDNA;genetic diversity;plant dispersal;population fragmentation;RAPD;AMPLIFIED POLYMORPHIC DNA;JACOBAEA ASTERACEAE;CONSENSUS PRIMERS;CHLOROPLAST DNA;SIERRA-NEVADA;ORIGIN;PHYLOGEOGRAPHY;COLONIZATION;POPULATIONS;Plant Sciences;Evolutionary Biology ER"	Little is known about the historical biogeography of alpine plants that are disjunctly distributed across the mountains of the Iberian Peninsula. Randomly Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and chloroplast microsatellite (cpSSR) variation were surveyed ill the Spanish alpine endemic, Senecio boissieri, to resolve the causes of its disjunct distribution in the southern Sierra Nevada and Baza, centrally located Sierra Guadarrama, and northern Cordillera Cantabrica. RAPD analysis identified two divergent genetic groups, one containing individuals from the Cordillera Cantabrica and another comprising individuals from the three other mountain ranges. Chloroplast DNA variation was much more limited with only one of forty-two cpSSR loci examined showing polymorphism. At this locus the same allele occurred at high frequency in material from each mountain range. A possible reason for RAPD divergence in the Cantabrian material is its derivation from plants surviving the last glacial maximum ill a northern refugium, isolated from the main distribution of the species spanning the area between the southern and central Spanish sierras. Postglacial fragmentation of the species range in southern and central Iberia would have resulted in the Current disjunction of genetically similar populations in southern and centrally located mountains.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0040-0262	 	"[Peredo, Elena L.; Angeles Revilla, M.; Fernandez Prieto, J. Antonio] Univ Oviedo, Dept Plant Physiol, E-33071 Oviedo, Spain. [Jimenez-Alfaro, Borja; Bueno, Alvaro] Jardin Bot Atlantico, Gijon 33394, Spain. [Abbott, Richard J.] Univ St Andrews, Sch Biol, St Andrews KY16 9TH, Fife, Scotland.; Peredo, EL (reprint author), Univ Oviedo, Dept Plant Physiol, Catedrat Rodrigo Uria S-N, E-33071 Oviedo, Spain.; elperedo.uo@uniovi.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Perez,Jesus M.;Granados,Jose E.;Sarasa,Mathieu;Serrano,Emmanuel"	Usefulness of estimated surface area of damaged skin as a proxy of mite load in the monitoring of sarcoptic mange in free-ranging populations of Iberian wild goat, Capra pyrenaica	Veterinary parasitology	Vet.Parasitol.	2011	Mar-10	176	02-Mar	258	264	"Capra pyrenaica;Mite counts;Sarcoptidosis;Skin lesions;Wildlife disease monitoring;CHAMOIS RUPICAPRA-PYRENAICA;CAGED LAYING HENS;SCABIEI VAR CANIS;SPANISH IBEX;BIASED PARASITISM;SPAIN;SELECTION;SURVIVAL;HOSTS;EPIDEMIOLOGY;Parasitology;Veterinary Sciences ER"	In this study we examined the influence of several factors, like the surface of skin with lesions attributable to Sarcoptes scabiei, the time of year and host sex and age on variations of mite load in Iberian wild goats, Capra pyrenaica, from the Sierra Nevada Natural Space, southern Spain. As well, the surface area of skin with scabietic lesions estimated during field surveys were compared with measurements taken in the laboratory and the potential for using categories based on surface areas estimated during monitoring and management programs was analyzed. The surface area of the skin lesions measured in the laboratory and the time of year were the main factors affecting mite load. Results also revealed discrepancies between the surface area of lesions estimated in the field and those measured in the laboratory. The highest error percentages were associated with lesions ranging between 25 and 75% of host skin surface area. By reducing the number of categories of mange infestation (from 5 to 3) the proportion of cases correctly classified using data from field surveys increases. Our analyses suggest that the estimated surface areas of scabietic lesions is a useful relative index of mite abundance and/or intensity of parasitation in Iberian wild goat. Therefore, we conclude that revised classifications should be used in the monitoring of sarcoptic mange in wild populations, since data can be obtained in an inexpensive, fast and non-invasive fashion. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0304-4017	 	"[Perez, Jesus M.] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, E-23071 Jaen, Spain. [Granados, Jose E.] Espacio Nat Sierra Nevada, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Serrano, Emmanuel] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Dept Med & Cirurg Anim, SEFaS, E-08193 Barcelona, Spain.; Perez, JM (reprint author), Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Campus Las Lagunillas SN, E-23071 Jaen, Spain.; jperez@ujaen.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.vetpar.2010.11.002	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Perez,Jesus M.;Serrano,Emmanuel;Soriguer,Ramon C.;Gonzalez,Francisco J.;Sarasa,Mathieu;Granados,Jose E.;Cano-Manuel,Francisco J.;Cuenca,Rafaela;Fandos,Paulino"	Distinguishing Disease Effects from Environmental Effects in a Mountain Ungulate: Seasonal Variation in Body Weight, Hematology, and Serum Chemistry among Iberian Ibex (Capra Pyrenaica) Affected by Sarcoptic Mange	Journal of wildlife diseases	J.Wildl.Dis.	2015	JAN	51	1	148	156	"Capra pyrenaica;host-parasite relationships;Sarcoptes scabiei;wildlife diseases;PROTEINS;VALUES;Veterinary Sciences ER"	Our study focuses on the Iberian ibex (Capra pyrenaica) from the Sierra Nevada Natural Space (southern Spain), where sarcoptic mange is an endemic disease and animals are affected by a highly seasonal environment. Our aim was to distinguish between disease and environmental influences on seasonal variation in body weight, hematology, and serum biochemistry in Iberian ibex. We sampled 136 chemically immobilized male ibexes. The single effect of mange influenced hemoglobin, hematocrit, mean corpuscular volume, leukocytes, band neutrophils, monocytes, cholesterol, urea, creatine, and aspartate aminotransferase. Both mange and the period of the year also affected values of mean corpuscular hemoglobin, mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, neutrophils, glucose, and serum proteins. Scabietic animals showed a marked reduction in body weight (21.4 kg on average), which was more pronounced in winter. These results reveal that 1) infested animals are anemic, 2) secondary infections likely occur, and 3) sarcoptic mange is catabolic.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0090-3558	 	"[Perez, Jesus M.; Sarasa, Mathieu] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, E-23071 Jaen, Spain. [Serrano, Emmanuel; Cuenca, Rafaela] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Dept Med & Cirurgia Anim, Serv Ecopatol Fauna Salvatge SEFaS, E-08193 Barcelona, Spain. [Serrano, Emmanuel] Univ Aveiro, Dept Biol, CESAM, P-3810193 Aveiro, Portugal. [Soriguer, Ramon C.] CSIC, Estn Biol Donana, E-41092 Seville, Spain. [Gonzalez, Francisco J.] Lab PROLAB, E-23600 Jaen, Spain. [Granados, Jose E.; Cano-Manuel, Francisco J.] Espacio Nat Sierra Nevada, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Fandos, Paulino] Agencia Medio Ambiente & Agua, E-41092 Seville, Spain.; Perez, JM (reprint author), Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Campus Las Lagunillas S-N, E-23071 Jaen, Spain.; jperez@ujaen.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.7589/2014-01-008	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Perez-Garcia,F. J.;Martinez-Hernandez,F.;Medina-Cazorla,J. M.;Mendoza-Fernandez,A. J.;Garrido-Becerra,J. A.;Salmeron-Sanchez,E.;Mota,J. F."	Syntaxa-area relationships, lessons from the vegetation of the Betic high mountain ranges (southern Spain)	Phytocoenologia	Phytocoenologia	2014	FEB	44	03-Apr	309	323	"high mountain flora;island biogeography;ISARs;phytosociology;plant conservation;species-area relationships;SE SPAIN;ET-AL.;CONSERVATION;BIOGEOGRAPHY;DIVERSITY;PATTERNS;MODEL;FLORA;BIODIVERSITY;GEOSERIES;Plant Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	"The species-area relationship is one of the most commonly studied issues in ecology and several explanatory models have been proposed for the question. Most papers on the relationships between taxa and area adopt the species-level approach. By contrast, our approach exports these concepts to other organizational levels of biodiversity and analyses the community-area relationships in the Betic mountain ranges at 4 levels of syntaxonomical hierarchy. Our approach also aims at studying the diversity of communities in the same way as taxonomical diversity is studied. To evaluate the matching of data to the different models, we used the regression coefficient (R-2) and the corrected version of Akaike's information criterion (AICc). The highest altitude of a sierra was taken as a surrogate of habitat diversity. ""Syntaxonomical diversity"" was evaluated in a similar way to the taxonomical diversity of Clarke & Warwick. We have studied 94 associations (belonging to 42 alliances, 36 orders and 25 classes). The calculated indexes reveal higher regression coefficient between richness in syntaxa and the parameter under study (area and highest altitude) in a semi-log model than in a log-log model. Although the best correlation is obtained considering both variables, the patterns of richness exhibit a higher correspondence with altitude than with area. Results confirm very high regression coefficient between richness in syntaxa and in the quantity of the endemic flora present in each sierra. The higher the syntaxonomical level concerned, the higher the regression coefficient. The richness of the syntaxa exhibits patterns similar to those of the endemic flora: the most important sites are siliceous Sierra Nevada, Sierra de Las Nieves and Sierra de Gador. There are important implications for conservation biology. These results show that approaches based on species and those based on communities are compatible for the preservation of biodiversity."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0340-269X	 	"[Perez-Garcia, F. J.; Martinez-Hernandez, F.; Medina-Cazorla, J. M.; Mendoza-Fernandez, A. J.; Garrido-Becerra, J. A.; Salmeron-Sanchez, E.; Mota, J. F.] Univ Almeria, Dept Biol & Geol, Almeria 04120, Spain.; Perez-Garcia, FJ (reprint author), Univ Almeria, Dept Biol & Geol, Almeria 04120, Spain.; fpgarcia@ual.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1127/0340-269X/2014/0044-0583	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Perez-Garcia,Francisco Javier;Cueto,Miguel;Penas,Julio;Martinez-Hernandez,Fabian;Medina-Cazorla,Jose Miguel;Garrido-Becerra,Juan Antonio;Mota,Juan Francisco"	Selection of an endemic flora reserve network and its biogeographical significance in the Baetic ranges (Southern Spain)	Acta Botanica Gallica	Acta Bot.Gallica	2007	DEC	154	4	545	571	"biodiversity hot-spot;phytogeography;plant conservation;plant endemism;Tabu search;CONSERVATION PRIORITIES;BIODIVERSITY HOTSPOTS;PLACE PRIORITIZATION;MEDITERRANEAN BASIN;PROTECTION;DESIGN;AREAS;Plant Sciences ER"	The Baetic mountains are a very important centre of plant diversity and endemicity. The current environmental legislation includes many of these localities. In order to assess the current reserves network and to propose a selection of protected areas, and to examine the biogeographic distinctiveness of that selection, we applied to the orophilous endemic flora a variety of algorithms (some of which were never used for Europe before) on the Baetic ranges. In order to preserve this natural heritage, it would be necessary to protect at least twelve massifs, considering the siliceous portion of Sierra Nevada as a great priority area. The most notable gaps in the legislation are the ranges of Gador, Revolcadores and La Pandera. The selected localities were characterized by their great biogeographical distinctiveness. The distinctiveness of the obtained selections stresses their reliability and also emphasizes the suitability of the biogeographic researches of the flora of the Baetic ranges for conservation objectives.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1253-8078	 	"[Perez-Garcia, Francisco Javier; Cueto, Miguel; Martinez-Hernandez, Fabian; Medina-Cazorla, Jose Miguel; Garrido-Becerra, Juan Antonio; Mota, Juan Francisco] Univ Almeria, Dept Plant Biol & Ecol, E-04120 Almeria, Spain. [Penas, Julio] Univ Granada, Dept Bot, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Perez-Garcia, FJ (reprint author), Univ Almeria, Dept Plant Biol & Ecol, E-04120 Almeria, Spain.; fpgarcia@ual.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Perez-Luque,A. J.;Perez-Perez,R.;Bonet-Garcia,F. J.;Magana,P. J."	An ontological system based on MODIS images to assess ecosystem functioning of Natura 2000 habitats: A case study for Quercus pyrenaica forests	International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation	 	2015	MAY	37	 	142	151	"Ontology;NDVI;Snow cover;(satellite) Earth observation;Sierra Nevada;REMOTE-SENSING DATA;IBERIAN PENINSULA;VEGETATION INDEX;GLOBAL CHANGE;CLASSIFICATION;PRODUCTS;CLIMATE;REPRESENTATION;FRAMEWORK;Remote Sensing ER"	The implementation of the Natura 2000 network requires methods to assess the conservation status of habitats. This paper shows a methodological approach that combines the use of (satellite) Earth observation with ontologies to monitor Natura 2000 habitats and assess their functioning. We have created an ontological system called Savia that can describe both the ecosystem functioning and the behaviour of abiotic factors in a Natura 2000 habitat. This system is able to automatically download images from MODIS products, create indicators and compute temporal trends for them. We have developed an ontology that takes into account the different concepts and relations about indicators and temporal trends, and the spatio-temporal components of the datasets. All the information generated from datasets and MODIS images, is stored into a knowledge base according to the ontology. Users can formulate complex questions using a SPARQL end-point. This system has been tested and validated in a case study that uses Quercus pyrenaica Willd. forests as a target habitat in Sierra Nevada (Spain), a Natura 2000 site. We assess ecosystem functioning using NDVI. The selected abiotic factor is snow cover. Savia provides useful data regarding these two variables and reflects relationships between them. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	"PT: J; SI: SI"	 		 	 	 	 				 	0303-2434	 	"[Perez-Luque, A. J.; Perez-Perez, R.; Bonet-Garcia, F. J.] Univ Granada, Inst Interuniv Sistema Tierra, Lab Ecol iEcolab, Granada 18006, Spain. [Perez-Luque, A. J.; Perez-Perez, R.; Bonet-Garcia, F. J.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Magana, P. J.] Univ Granada, Inst Interuniv Sistema Tierra, Grp Dinam Flujos Ambientales, Granada 18006, Spain.; Perez-Luque, AJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Inst Interuniv Sistema Tierra, Lab Ecol iEcolab, Avda Mediterraneo S-N, Granada 18006, Spain.; ajperez@ugr.es; ramon@ugr.es; fjbonet@ugr.es; pmagana@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.jag.2014.09.003	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Perez-Martinez,C.;Barea-Arco,J.;Conde-Porcuna,J. M.;Morales-Baquero,R."	Reproduction strategies of Daphnia pulicaria population in a high mountain lake of Southern Spain	Hydrobiologia	Hydrobiologia	2007	DEC	594	 	75	82	"Daphnia;diapause;hatching;high mountain lake;reproduction;FRESH-WATER CRUSTACEAN;SEXUAL REPRODUCTION;ZOOPLANKTON;PHOTOPERIOD;DYNAMICS;COPEPODS;EPIBIONT;STIMULI;PULEX;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	For three consecutive years, a population study of Daphnia pulicaria was undertaken in Rio Seco Lake, a small high-mountain lake, in order to elucidate the reproductive strategies adopted by Daphnia in this system. Daphnia appears to colonize this lake every spring by hatching from ephippia and reproduce by means of subitaneous (non-diapausing) and ephippial (diapausing) eggs. D. pulicaria in this lake is an obligate parthenogenetic population. There is a short time period for subitaneous egg production and a much longer period for ephippial egg production. The contribution of subitaneous eggs to Daphnia population density and structure appears to be low. Diapause onset showed a high temporal synchronization in the three studied years in Rio Seco Lake, and day-length emerged as the main cue triggering diapause onset and the main explanatory factor for the proportion of ephippial females observed. The development and reproduction of D. pulicaria in Rio Seco Lake involves taking a gamble on resting forms to guarantee inter-annual Daphnia persistence in the lake, giving priority to investment in future generations.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0018-8158	 	"Univ Granada, Inst Water Res, E-18071 Granada, Spain. Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Perez-Martinez, C (reprint author), Univ Granada, Inst Water Res, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; cperezm@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10750-007-9084-3	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Perez-Martinez,Carmen;Jimenez,Laura;Moreno,Emilio;Conde-Porcuna,Jose M."	Emergence pattern and hatching cues of Daphnia pulicaria (Crustacea, Cladocera) in an alpine lake	Hydrobiologia	Hydrobiologia	2013	MAY	707	1	47	57	"Daphnia pulicaria;Dormancy;Emergence rates;Hatching cues;Light;FRESH-WATER ZOOPLANKTON;LIFE-HISTORY;RESTING EGGS;CLIMATE-CHANGE;DIAPAUSE;REPRODUCTION;POPULATION;DYNAMICS;CYCLE;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	We investigated the emergence of Daphnia pulicaria from resting eggs in Rio Seco, an alpine lake in which the zooplankton growing period is short. In situ studies were carried out using sediment emergence traps and plankton sampling, and the sediment egg bank was analyzed. A laboratory experiment was performed to explore the role of photoperiod and temperature as hatching cues for D. pulicaria. We hypothesized that the time window for emergence would be short and that hatching cues would be linked to the variable ice-break period. In the field, D. pulicaria showed a highly synchronized emergence in both years. The hatching period was restricted to 3 weeks during and immediately after the thaw. In the laboratory experiment, no hatchings were observed in the dark treatment and neither photoperiod nor temperature affected hatching rates. Therefore, the presence of light, which corresponds with the period of ice-break, was essential for triggering dormancy termination of D. pulicaria. Our results show that the period when the ice-break occurs is a key event for Daphnia population development. The longer ice-free periods predicted by climate change in the alpine lakes could therefore have important effects on the crustacean population dynamics of these systems.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0018-8158	 	"[Perez-Martinez, Carmen] Univ Granada, Inst Water Res, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Perez-Martinez, Carmen; Jimenez, Laura; Moreno, Emilio; Conde-Porcuna, Jose M.] Univ Granada, Fac Sci, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Perez-Martinez, C (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Sci, Dept Ecol, Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; cperezm@ugr.es; laurajl@ugr.es; emiliojml@ugr.es; jmconde@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10750-012-1404-6	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Perez-Palazon,M. J.;Pimentel,R.;Herrero,J.;Aguilar,C.;Perales,J. M.;Polo,M. J."	Extreme values of snow-related variables in Mediterranean regions: trends and long-term forecasting in Sierra Nevada (Spain)	Extreme Hydrological Events	 	2015	 	369	 	157	162	"WATERSHED SCALE;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Water Resources ER"	Mountain areas in Mediterranean regions constitute key monitoring points for climate variability and its impacts, but long time datasets are not always available due to the difficult access to high areas, relevant for capturing temperature and precipitation regimes, and the predominance of cloudy remote sensing images during the snow season. Sierra Nevada National Park (South Spain), with altitudes higher than 3500 m a.s.l., is part of the Global Change in Mountain Regions network. Snow occurrence just 40 km from the seaside determines a wide range of biodiversity, a snowmelt fluvial regime, and the associated ecosystem services. This work presents the local trend analysis of weather variables at this area together with additional snow-related variables. For this, long term point and distributed observations from weather stations and remote sensing sources were studied and used as input and calibration datasets of a physically based snow model to derive long term series of mean and maximum daily fraction of snow covered area, annual number of days with snow, annual number of days with precipitation, mean and maximum mean daily snow water equivalent, and snowmelt and evaporation volumes. The joint analysis of weather and snow variables showed a decrease trend in the persistence and extent of the snow cover area. The precipitation regime, rather than the temperature trend, seems to be the most relevant driver on the snow regime forcing in Mediterranean areas. This poses a constraint for rigorous scenario analysis in these regions, since the precipitation pattern is poorly approximated by climatic models in these regions.	PT: S	 	Cudennec, C Eicker, A Pilon, P Stoffel, M Viglione, A Xu,Z.	Proceedings of the International Association of Hydrological Sciences (IAHS)	 	 	 				 	2199-899X	 	"[Perez-Palazon, M. J.; Pimentel, R.; Perales, J. M.; Polo, M. J.] Univ Cordoba, Fluvial Dynam & Hydrol, Andalusian Inst Earth Syst Res, Cordoba, Spain. [Herrero, J.; Aguilar, C.] Univ Granada, Fluvial Dynam & Hydrol, Andalusian Inst Earth Syst Res, Granada, Spain.; Perez-Palazon, MJ (reprint author), Univ Cordoba, Fluvial Dynam & Hydrol, Andalusian Inst Earth Syst Res, Cordoba, Spain.; mj.perez@uco.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.5194/piahs-369-157-2015	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Perez-Pena,J. V.;Azanon,J. M.;Azor,A."	CalHypso: An ArcGIS extension to calculate hypsometric curves and their statistical moments. Applications to drainage basin analysis in SE Spain	Computers & Geosciences	Comput.Geosci.	2009	JUN	35	6	1214	1223	"Hypsometric curve;GIS extension;Active tectonics;Sierra Nevada;Betic Cordillera;TECTONIC IMPLICATIONS;SOUTHEAST SPAIN;SCALE;EVOLUTION;SYSTEM;BETICS;AREA;GIS;Computer Science;Geology ER"	We present the GIS extension CalHypso to automatically extract multiple hypsometric curves from digital elevation models (DEM). This extension is programmed in Visual Basic 6 and uses the ArcObjects architecture of ArcGIS. It employs a new and easy methodology to extract the hypsometric curve by using the integer data-model properties of ArcGIS and summations algorithms. This provides an optimal integration within the program environment, allowing the representation and comparison of curves directly within the GIS main program. The CalHypso extension can also calculate the main statistics related to the hypsometric curve by applying polynomial fits. We have tested this tool in several basins of the eastern border of the Sierra-Nevada dome in the Betic Cordillera (SE Spain), showing important differences in the north- and south-slope hypsometric Curves. These variations are probably related to the tectonically controlled drainage evolution of the Southern border of Sierra Nevada. An eastward decrease in tectonic-driven erosion is also suggested by the hypsometric curves analyzed. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0098-3004	 	"[Perez-Pena, J. V.; Azanon, J. M.; Azor, A.] Univ Granada, Dept Geodinam, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Azanon, J. M.] Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra UGR CSIC, Granada, Spain.; Perez-Pena, JV (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Geodinam, Campus Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; vperez@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.cageo.2008.06.006	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Perini,Giulia;Cesare,Bernardo;Gomez-Pugnaire,Maria Teresa;Ghezzi,Lorenzo;Tommasini,Simone"	Armouring effect on Sr-Nd isotopes during disequilibrium crustal melting: the case study of frozen migmatites from El Hoyazo and Mazarron, SE Spain	European Journal of Mineralogy	 	2009	JAN-FEB	21	1	117	131	"Sr-Nd isotope disequilibrium;element diffusion;crustal melting;erupted migmatite;Neogene Volcanic Province;Spain;RUTHERFORD BACKSCATTERING SPECTROSCOPY;SOUTHERN SIERRA-NEVADA;STRONTIUM DIFFUSION;TRACE-ELEMENT;CALC-ALKALINE;MAGMATIC EVOLUTION;VOLCANIC PROVINCE;RESIDENCE TIMES;LONG VALLEY;U-PB;Mineralogy ER"	Crustal melting is responsible for the production of large volumes of rhyolitic melt and therefore is central to understand the rheology of the crust and the mechanisms of crustal differentiation. The attainment of isotopic equilibrium during melting of crustal rocks is implicitly assumed in most isotopic dating and tracing studies. This assumption considers the melting event as an instantaneous process and does not take into account the duration of anatexis. To assess the critical role of the timescale of crustal melting, we have studied the unique occurrence of erupted migmatites enclosed as xenoliths in the El Hoyazo and Mazarron dacites of the Neogene Volcanic Province of SE Spain. These xenoliths represent the residue after some 30-60 % rhyolitic melt extraction at P-T conditions of 5-7 kbar and similar to 850 degrees C, and consist of biotite, plagioclase, sillimanite, garnet, cordierite, graphite and abundant glass inclusions (i.e., not extracted rhyolitic melt) within each mineral phase. The timescale of melt extraction was similar to 3 Myr and < 0.8 Myr at El Hoyazo and Mazarron, respectively, resembling the duration of melting events during rapid anatexis caused by basalt underplating and crustal assimilation processes. In both localities, the minerals and glass inclusions of erupted migmatites preserve a significant Sr and minor Nd isotope disequilibrium. At Mazarron the isotopic disequilibrium is most marked owing to the shorter residence time of the melt within the source. The isotopic disequilibrium is not caused by the major xenolith-forming minerals but rather by the accessory phosphate inclusions (apatite +/- monazite +/- xenotime) hosted in garnet and biotite. The preservation of isotopic disequilibrium in these accessory phases has been facilitated by both their intrinsically low Sr and Nd diffusion coefficients and the armouring effect caused by their occurrence within biotite and garnet crystals, which acted as chemical barriers to Sr and Nd diffusion. This result implies that modelling of radiogenic isotope equilibration in natural systems should consider elemental diffusion in a composite medium with a resistance at the interface, i.e. different partition coefficients between adjacent mineral phases.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0935-1221	 	"[Perini, Giulia; Ghezzi, Lorenzo; Tommasini, Simone] Univ Florence, Dipartimento Sci Terra, I-50121 Florence, Italy. [Cesare, Bernardo] Univ Padua, Dipartimento Geosci, I-35137 Padua, Italy. [Cesare, Bernardo] Ist Geosci Georisorse, Sez Padova, CNR, I-35137 Padua, Italy. [Ghezzi, Lorenzo] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Granada 18002, Spain. [Gomez-Pugnaire, Maria Teresa] CSIC, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra, Granada 18002, Spain.; Tommasini, S (reprint author), Univ Florence, Dipartimento Sci Terra, Via Pira 4, I-50121 Florence, Italy.; toms@unifi.it"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1127/0935-1221/2009/0021-1882	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Pimentel,Rafael;Herrero,Javier;Jose Polo,Maria"	Estimating snow albedo patterns in a Mediterranean site from Landsat TM and ETM plus images	Remote Sensing for Agriculture, Ecosystems, and Hydrology Xv	 	2013	 	8887	 	88870L	88870L	"snow albedo;Landsat TM and ETM;Mediterranean environment;remote sensing;snow modelling;ATMOSPHERIC CORRECTIONS;SURFACE ALBEDO;REFLECTANCE;RETRIEVAL;COVER;BAND;Engineering;Optics ER"	The albedo of snow affects the shortwave radiative flux at the land-atmosphere interface, so that it therefore plays an important role in the snow mass and energy balance. In semiarid areas, their particular climate conditions enhance the spatiotemporal variability of the snow albedo during the snow cover periods, increasing its difficulty in being measured and monitored. Satellite remote sensing is a powerful tool for measuring snow albedo evolution. Ten years of Landsat-5 and Landsat-7 Thematic Mapper images were analysed to determine a trend in the albedo evolution throughout the year in a Mediterranean site, Sierra Nevada Mountain (Southern Spain). A pattern in snow albedo from all the snow pixel in each Landsat scene was obtained. It ranges from 0.8 in new snow to 0.4 in old dirty snow, with a decreasing rate of 0.003 albedo per day. This trend was validated with 5 specific location, where the snow is more persistent while the pixel remains well-illuminated.	PT: S	 	Neale,CMU Maltese,A.	Proceedings of SPIE	 	 	 				 	"0277-786X; 978-0-8194-9756-7"	 	"[Pimentel, Rafael; Herrero, Javier] Univ Granada, Fluvial Dynam & Hydrol Res Grp, Andalusian Inst Earth Syst Res, Granada 18006, Spain.; Pimentel, R (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fluvial Dynam & Hydrol Res Grp, Andalusian Inst Earth Syst Res, Edificio CEAMA,Av Mediterraneo S-N, Granada 18006, Spain.; rpimentel@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1117/12.2029064	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Pimentel,Rafael;Herrero,Javier;Jose Polo,Maria"	Terrestrial photography as an alternative to satellite images to study snow cover evolution at hillslope scale	Remote Sensing for Agriculture, Ecosystems, and Hydrology Xiv	 	2012	 	8531	 	85310Y	85310Y	"snow;Landsat;Mediterranean;terrestrial photography;snow cover;RETRIEVAL;TM;Agriculture;Remote Sensing;Optics ER"	In Mediterranean regions, where the water shortage is a serious and recurrent problem, it is essential to know the behaviour and evolution of the snow. Satellite remote sensing is widely used to find out the evolution of the snow cover extension at medium-large scales. But these techniques pose some constraints if snow is heterogeneously distributed, as they do not correctly represent the physical processes that occur on a smaller scale than the satellite image. In such cases, terrestrial photographs, whose resolution can be more easily adapted to the required resolution for these study cases, are an economic and also efficient alternative. This work presents a methodology for the georeferencing and automatic detection of snow in terrestrial photography, as an alternative to the use of satellite images for the study of the snow cover evolution in small areas. This methodology has been evaluated during the snowmelt period in the spring of 2009 at a study site in Sierra Nevada Natural Park (Southern Spain). The resulting snow maps have been compared with the results available for that period obtained from the analyses of four Landsat images. The results show that the use of Landsat generally overestimated the extension of the snow cover in the study area.	PT: S	 	Neale,CMU Maltese,A.	Proceedings of SPIE	 	 	 				 	"0277-786X; 978-0-8194-9271-5"	 	"[Pimentel, Rafael; Herrero, Javier] Univ Granada, Interuniv Inst Res Earth Syst Andalusia, Fluvial Dynam & Hydrol Res Grp, Granada 18007, Spain.; Pimentel, R (reprint author), Univ Granada, Interuniv Inst Res Earth Syst Andalusia, Fluvial Dynam & Hydrol Res Grp, Edificio CEAMA,Av Mediterraneo S-N, Granada 18007, Spain.; rpimentel@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1117/12.974419	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Pimentel,Rafael;Herrero,Javier;Polo,Maria Jose"	Snow evolution in a semi-arid mountainous area combining snow modelling and Landsat spectral mixture analysis	Remote Sensing and Gis for Hydrology and Water Resources	 	2015	 	368	 	33	39	"snow;physical modelling;spectral mixture analysis;semiarid environments;Landsat imagery;Spain;ENERGY;MODIS;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Remote Sensing;Water Resources ER"	"This study proposes the use of both physically-distributed hydrological modelling in combination with satellite remote sensing images, to study the evolution of the snowpack in the Sierra Nevada mountains, in southern Spain. The snowmelt-accumulation module inside WiMMed (Watershed Integrated Management in Mediterranean Environment) hydrological model was employed, which includes the use of depletion curves to expand the energy and water balance equations over a grid representation. Snow maps obtained from spectral mixture analysis of Landsat images were used to evaluate this model at the study site. The results show a significant agreement between observed and simulated snow pixels in the area, which allows production of sequences of snow maps with greater resolution than the remote sensing images employed. However, some mismatches do appear at the boundaries of the snow area, mainly related to: (a) the great number of mixed pixels; and (b) the influence of the snow transport by wind."	PT: S	 	Chen, Y Neale, C Cluckie, I Su, Z Zhou, J Huang, Q Xu,Z.	IAHS Publication	 	 	 				 	"0144-7815; 978-1-907161-46-9"	 	"[Pimentel, Rafael; Polo, Maria Jose] Univ Cordoba, Andalusian Inst Earth Syst Res, Fluvial Dynam & Hydrol Res Grp, Area Ingn Hidraul, Cordoba 14017, Spain. [Herrero, Javier] Univ Cordoba, Andalusian Inst Earth Syst Res, Fluvial Dynam & Hydrol Res Grp, Cordoba 18006, Spain.; Pimentel, R (reprint author), Univ Cordoba, Andalusian Inst Earth Syst Res, Fluvial Dynam & Hydrol Res Grp, Area Ingn Hidraul, Campus Rabanales,Edificio Leonardo da Vinci, Cordoba 14017, Spain.; rpimentel@uco.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Pimentel,Rafael;Herrero,Javier;Zeng,Yijian;Su,Zhongbo;Polo,Maria J."	Study of Snow Dynamics at Subgrid Scale in Semiarid Environments Combining Terrestrial Photography and Data Assimilation Techniques	Journal of Hydrometeorology	J.Hydrometeorol.	2015	APR	16	2	563	578	"Snow;Snowmelt;icemelt;Snow cover;Kalman filters;Data assimilation;Subgrid-scale processes;SEQUENTIAL DATA ASSIMILATION;COVER ENERGY-BALANCE;SQUARE-ROOT FILTERS;KALMAN FILTER;SIERRA-NEVADA;MASS-BALANCE;MODEL;SURFACE;ALBEDO;CLIMATE;Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences ER"	Snow cover simulation is a complex task in mountain regions because of its highly irregular distribution. GIS-based calculations of snowmelt-accumulation models must deal with nonnegligible scale effects below cell size, which may result in unsatisfactory predictions depending on the study scale. Terrestrial photography, whose scales can be adapted to the study problem, is a cost-effective technique, capable of reproducing snow dynamics at subgrid scale. A series of high-frequency images were combined with a mass and energy model to reproduce snow evolution at cell scale (30 m x 30 m) by means of the assimilation of the snow cover fraction observation dataset obtained from terrestrial photography in the Sierra Nevada, southern Spain. The ensemble transform Kalman filter technique is employed. The results show the convenience of adopting a selective depletion curve parameterization depending on the succession of accumulation-melting cycles in the snow season in these highly variable environments. A reduction in the error for snow depth to 50% (from 463.87 to 261.21 mm and from 238.22 to 128.50 mm) is achieved if the appropriate curve is selected.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1525-755X	 	"[Pimentel, Rafael; Herrero, Javier] Univ Granada, Andalusian Inst Earth Syst Res, Fluvial Dynam & Hydrol Res Grp, Granada 18006, Spain. [Zeng, Yijian; Su, Zhongbo] Univ Twente, Fac Geoinformat Sci & Earth Observat, NL-7500 AE Enschede, Netherlands. [Polo, Maria J.] Univ Cordoba, Andalusian Inst Earth Syst Res, Fluvial Dynam & Hydrol Res Grp, Cordoba, Spain.; Pimentel, R (reprint author), Univ Granada, Andalusian Inst Earth Syst Res, Fluvial Dynam & Hydrol Res Grp, Edificio CEAMA,Av Mediterraneo S-N, Granada 18006, Spain.; rpimentel@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1175/JHM-D-14-0046.1	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Pisa,Sergio;Werner,Olaf;Vanderpoorten,Alain;Magdy,Mahmoud;Ros,Rosa M."	Elevational Patterns of Genetic Variation in the Cosmopolitan Moss Bryum Argenteum (Bryaceae)	American Journal of Botany	Am.J.Bot.	2013	OCT	100	10	2000	2008	"adaptive divergence;Baas Becking tenet;bryophytes;Bryum argenteum;cosmopolitan species;elevational gradients;genetic diversity;mountains;HEAVY-METAL TOLERANCE;MOLECULAR PHYLOGEOGRAPHY;PHYLOGENETIC ANALYSIS;FROST TOLERANCE;GROWTH-RATE;POPULATIONS;DIVERSITY;EVOLUTIONARY;DNA;Plant Sciences ER"	Premise of the study: The Baas Becking tenet posits that 'everything is everywhere, but the environment selects' to explain cosmopolitan distributions in highly vagile taxa. Bryophyte species show wider distributions than vascular plants and include examples of truly cosmopolitan ranges, which have been interpreted as a result of high dispersal capacities and ecological plasticity. In the current study, we documented patterns of genetic structure and diversity in the cosmopolitan moss Bryum argenteum along an elevational gradient to determine if genetic diversity and structure is homogenized by intense migrations in the lack of ecological differentiation. Methods: 60 specimens were collected in the Sierra Nevada Mountains (Spain) between 100 and 2870 m and sequenced for ITS and rps4. Comparative analyses, genetic diversity estimators, and Mantel's tests were employed to determine the relationship between genetic variation, elevation, and geographic distance and to look for signs of demographic shifts. Key results: Genetic diversity peaked above 1900 m and no signs of demographic shifts were detected at any elevation. There was a strong phylogenetic component in elevational variation. Genetic variation was signifi cantly correlated with elevation, but not with geographic distance. Conclusions: The results point to the long-term persistence of Bryum argenteum in a range that was glaciated during the Late Pleistocene. Evidence for an environmentally driven pattern of genetic differentiation suggests adaptive divergence. This supports the Baas Becking tenet and indicates that ecological specialization might play a key role in explaining patterns of genetic structure in cosmopolitan mosses.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0002-9122	 	"[Pisa, Sergio; Werner, Olaf; Magdy, Mahmoud; Ros, Rosa M.] Univ Murcia, Fac Biol, Dept Biol Vegetal Bot, E-30100 Murcia, Spain. [Vanderpoorten, Alain] Univ Liege, Inst Bot, B-4000 Cointe Ougree, Belgium. [Magdy, Mahmoud] Ain Shams Univ, Fac Agr, Dept Genet, Cairo 11241, Egypt.; Pisa, S (reprint author), Univ Murcia, Fac Biol, Dept Biol Vegetal Bot, Campus Espinardo, E-30100 Murcia, Spain.; sergiopisa@um.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3732/ajb.1300100	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Pozo,Jesus;Casas,Jesus;Menendez,Margarita;Molla,Salvador;Arostegui,Inmaculada;Basaguren,Ana;Casado,Carmen;Descals,Enrique;Garcia-Aviles,Javier;Gonzalez,Jose M.;Larranaga,Aitor;Lopez,Enrique;Lusi,Mirian;Moya,Oscar;Perez,Javier;Riera,Tecla;Roblas,Neftali;Jacoba Salinas,M."	Leaf-litter decomposition in headwater streams: a comparison of the process among four climatic regions	Journal of the North American Benthological Society	J.N.Am.Benthol.Soc.	2011	DEC	30	4	935	950	"leaf litter;decomposition;headwater streams;invertebrates;fungi;eutrophication;Spain;WATER-QUALITY;DEPOSITED SEDIMENT;POLLUTED RIVER;NORTHERN SPAIN;LAND-USE;BREAKDOWN;INTEGRITY;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	The main purpose of our work was to elucidate factors responsible for the geographical differences in leaf-litter decomposition rates in Spanish oligotrophic headwater streams. Decomposition experiments with alder (Alnus glutinosa) leaf litter were carried out in 22 headwater streams in 4 different climatic regions across the Iberian Peninsula (Cornisa Cantabrica, Cordillera Litoral Catalana, Sierra de Guadarrama, and Sierra Nevada). Streams that were similar in size, flowed mainly over siliceous substrate in catchments with scarce human settlements and activities, and fell within a range of low nutrient concentrations were chosen in each region. Breakdown rates were regionally variable and were low (0.109-0.198% ash-free dry mass [AFDM]/degree day [dd]) in the Cornisa Cantabrica, the most mesic and Atlantic region, and high (0.302-0.639% AFDM/dd) in Sierra de Guadarrama, one of the coldest and most inland areas. Temperature was not the determining factor affecting differences in breakdown rates among regions, and breakdown rates were not related to concentrations of dissolved nutrients. However, microbial reproductive activity (sporulation rates) was significantly correlated with dissolved P concentration. Breakdown rates were explained better by presence and feeding activities of detritivores than by decomposer activity. Incorporation of breakdown rates in assessment schemes of stream ecological status will be difficult because leaf processing does not respond unequivocally to environmental factors when climatic regions are considered. Thus, regional adjustments of baseline standards in reference conditions will be required.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0887-3593	 	"[Pozo, Jesus; Basaguren, Ana; Larranaga, Aitor; Perez, Javier] Univ Basque Country, Dpto Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Bilbao 48080, Spain. [Casas, Jesus; Lopez, Enrique; Lusi, Mirian; Jacoba Salinas, M.] Univ Almeria, Dpto Biol Vegetal & Ecol, La Canada De San Urbano 04120, Almeria, Spain. [Menendez, Margarita; Riera, Tecla] Univ Barcelona, Dept Ecol, E-08028 Barcelona, Spain. [Molla, Salvador; Casado, Carmen] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Dept Ecol, E-28049 Madrid, Spain. [Arostegui, Inmaculada] Univ Basque Country, Dpto Matemat Aplicada & Invest Operat F Ciencia &, Bilbao 48080, Spain. [Descals, Enrique; Moya, Oscar] IMEDEA CSIC, Inst Mediterraneo Estudios Avanzados, Esporles 07190, Mallorca, Spain. [Garcia-Aviles, Javier] Univ Complutense Madrid, Dept Ecol, E-28040 Madrid, Spain. [Gonzalez, Jose M.] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Dpto Biol & Geol, Madrid 28933, Spain. [Roblas, Neftali] Ctr Invest Ambient Comunidad Madrid, Madrid 28760, Spain.; Pozo, J (reprint author), Univ Basque Country, Dpto Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Apdo 644, Bilbao 48080, Spain.; jesus.pozo@ehu.es; jjcasas@ual.es; mmenendez@ub.edu; salvador.molla@uam.es; inmaculada.arostegui@ehu.es; ana.basaguren@ehu.es; c.casado@uam.es; ieaedc@uib.es; ciam03@bio.ucm.es; jmgonzalez@escet.urjc.es; aitor.larranagaa@ehu.es; emlopez@ual.es; mirianlusi@hotmail.it; oscarmoyamesa@gmail.com; javier.perezv@ehu.es; triera@porthos.bio.ub.es; neftali.roblas@madrid.org; mjsalina@ual.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1899/10-153.1	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Prados Velasco,Ma Jose	Naturbanization and Urban Patterns in National Parks in Andalusia	Boletin De La Asociacion De Geografos Espanoles	 	2012	 	 	60	19	+	"Naturbanization;urban patterns;orto-photographs;building certificates;protected areas;RURAL MIGRATION;NEW-ENGLAND;LANDSCAPE;COUNTERURBANIZATION;POPULATION;AREAS;Geography ER"	Naturbanization analyzes the consequences of the spatial mobility of the population in the areas of socio-economic influence of spaces with recognized environmental and landscape values. This article looks at the new urban patterns that have resulted from naturbanization processes in the Donana and Sierra Nevada national parks, in Andalusia (Spain). An analysis of aerial photographs and building certificates authorized by the Huelva, Seville and Granada provincial Colleges of Architects for municipalities in the two parks enables the two sources to be compared and the various human developments and their relationships with population's behaviour to be examined. The findings provide a set of recommendations for managing protected spaces.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0212-9426	 	"Univ Seville, Dept Geog Humana, Seville, Spain.; Velasco, MJP (reprint author), Univ Seville, Dept Geog Humana, Seville, Spain.; mjprados@us.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Puerta-Pinero,Carolina	Changes in riparian forest composition along a sedimentation rate gradient	Plant Ecology	Plant Ecol.	2010	OCT	210	2	213	224	"Landscape ecology;Pre-dispersal seed predation;Post-dispersal seed predation;Quercus ilex;Recruitment;Spatial analysis;POSTDISPERSAL SEED PREDATION;SPATIAL-PATTERNS;QUERCUS-ILEX;JANZEN-CONNELL;SUS-SCROFA;DISPERSAL;OAK;ESTABLISHMENT;Plant Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Forestry ER"	Riparian forests are highly valued for maintaining water quality through the retention of sediments and nutrients. They also provide some of the most diverse and species-rich habitats in the world. What is largely unknown, however, is how sediment deposition affects plant community composition in these forests. The objective of this study was to examine changes in plant community composition across a gradient of increasing rates of sedimentation in riparian forests in the southeastern Coastal Plain, USA. Seventeen plots were established within riparian forests receiving between 0 and 5.5 cm year(-1) of sediment deposits. Species density and biomass estimates were collected annually from 2002 to 2006 for overstory and mid-story plant species within each plot. Percent cover and nested frequency of understory plant species were determined annually during 2004-2006. Measures of community composition in the understory, mid-story, and overstory layers of forests were compared to changes in environmental factors associated with increased sedimentation. In the understory, annual, exotic, and upland species had higher importance values in plots receiving high sediment deposition. The densities of shade-intolerant and N-fixing species in the mid-story also increased with increasing sedimentation rates. Increased overstory mortality was associated with high sedimentation rates, though increases in understory light levels in these gaps were not the main driver of understory species changes. Edaphic factors, such as soil texture, moisture, and temperature, were significantly correlated to species composition in all three forest layers, suggesting that changes in soil physical structure due to sedimentation may drive community-level changes in these forests.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1385-0237	 	"[Puerta-Pinero, Carolina] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Fac Ciencias, Granada 18071, Spain.; Puerta-Pinero, C (reprint author), Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Unit 9100, Box 0948, DPO, AA 34002 USA.; puertac@si.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s11258-010-9750-9	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Puerta-Pinero,Carolina;Gomez,Jose Maria;Schupp,Eugene W."	Spatial patterns of acorn dispersal by rodents: do acorn crop size and ungulate presence matter?	Oikos	Oikos	2010	JAN	119	1	179	187	"DISTRIBUTIONS REDUCE PILFERAGE;LONG-DISTANCE DISPERSAL;SEED DISPERSAL;POINT PATTERNS;QUERCUS-ILEX;RECRUITMENT;DENSITY;TREE;CONSEQUENCES;DETERMINANTS;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	"Seed dispersal is qualitatively effective when it increases recruitment probability. A poorly studied factor likely affecting recruitment is the spatial distribution of dispersed seeds. Seed-caching animals are thought to disperse seeds in a way that reduces clumping and density to impede cache pilfering. Furthermore, dispersal might differ depending on whether the seed is immediately consumed versus cached for later consumption, and might differ depending on the ecological context. The main objectives of this study were to determine: 1) the spatial pattern of seed dispersal by rodents in a heterogeneous environment; 2) whether the patterns differ among years and among acorn competitor exclosure treatments, and 3) whether rodents create different spatial patterns of dispersal for acorns that are cached versus consumed immediately following dispersal. We studied the degree of spatial aggregation of acorn dispersal by rodents using two different estimators derived from the Ripley K and the Diggle G functions. We also analyzed various metrics of dispersal distances. For both analyses we used observed acorn dispersal patterns in two years differing in crop size and inside versus outside exclosures restricting access to acorn-consuming ungulates. During 2003, a year with a larger crop size, maximum seed dispersal distances were less, and the pattern of dispersed seeds was more clumped, than in 2004, a year with a smaller crop size. Median dispersal distances did not differ between years. In the presence of ungulates, seed dispersal was marginally sparser than in their absence. Cached acorns were dispersed more sparsely than acorns eaten immediately. These results have important implications for the quality of seed dispersal for oak recruitment that are likely relevant to other systems as well."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0030-1299	 	"[Puerta-Pinero, Carolina; Gomez, Jose Maria] Univ Granada, Depto Ecol, Fac Ciencias, ES-18071 Granada, Spain. [Schupp, Eugene W.] Utah State Univ, Dept Wildland Resources, Logan, UT 84322 USA. [Schupp, Eugene W.] Utah State Univ, Ctr Ecol, Logan, UT 84322 USA. [Schupp, Eugene W.] CSIC, Estac Biol Donana, ES-41092 Seville, Spain.; Puerta-Pinero, C (reprint author), Univ Granada, Depto Ecol, Fac Ciencias, ES-18071 Granada, Spain.; carol@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/j.1600-0706.2009.17793.x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Puglisi,Marta;Kuerschner,Harald;Privitera,Maria"	The Schistidio atrofusci-Grimmietum pulvinatae, a new association of the class Grimmietea anodontis on the Mediterranean mountains	Nova Hedwigia	Nova Hedwigia	2015	 	100	01-Feb	205	214	"Bryophyte vegetation;Mediterranean mountains;phytosociology;life syndromes;EUROPEAN BRYOPHYTE FLORA;LIFE STRATEGIES;SIERRA-NEVADA;MOSS FLORA;RECORDS;GREECE;VEGETATION;SPAIN;TERRESTRIAL;COMMUNITIES;Plant Sciences ER"	The new association Schistidio atrofusci-Grimmietum pulvinatae of the class Grimmietea anodontis, found in many mountain areas of the Mediterranean region, is here described. Its structure, floristic composition, ecological and phytosociological aspects are discussed. Moreover, life syndromes of the species are given, indicating some key functions and adaptive traits for habitat maintenance, establishment and dispersal.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0029-5035	 	"[Puglisi, Marta; Privitera, Maria] Univ Catania, Dipartimento Sci Biol Geol & Ambientali, Sez Biol Vegetale, I-95125 Catania, Italy. [Kuerschner, Harald] Free Univ Berlin, Inst Biol Systemat Bot & Pflanzengeog, D-14195 Berlin, Germany.; Puglisi, M (reprint author), Univ Catania, Dipartimento Sci Biol Geol & Ambientali, Sez Biol Vegetale, Via A Longo 19, I-95125 Catania, Italy.; mpuglisi@unict.it"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1127/nova_hedwigia/2014/0213	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Pulido-Villena,Elvira;Reche,Isabel;Morales-Baquero,Rafael"	Evidence of an atmospheric forcing on bacterioplankton and phytoplankton dynamics in a high mountain lake	Aquatic Sciences	Aquat.Sci.	2008	APR	70	1	1	9	"Saharan dust;atmospheric phosphorus;mountain lake;NORTHERN BALTIC SEA;MEDITERRANEAN SEA;NUTRIENT;LIMITATION;COMMUNITY RESPONSES;OLIGOTROPHIC LAKE;PHOSPHORUS;BACTERIA;NITROGEN;ENRICHMENT;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	We quantified dry and wet atmospheric deposition of soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP) to the Southwest Mediterranean region during one year and assessed its effect on bacterial abundance and phytoplankton specific biomass during one ice-free period in a high mountain lake located in an area highly influenced by Saharan dust outbreaks. Dry deposition of SRP represented 79% of total SRP inputs and it showed a seasonal pattern similar to Saharan dust export to this region, with maxima during spring and summer. Bacterial abundance was significantly correlated with SRP atmospheric deposition, suggesting the influence of this input on bacterioplankton dynamics. The field evidence was experimentally corroborated using bacterial regrowth cultures performed with dust-amended lake water. Dust addition significantly increased SRP concentration in lake water and it stimulated bacterial abundance. Regarding phytoplankton community, only one species, the chrysophyte Chromulina nevadensis, was significantly related to SRP inputs and, consequently, there was a significant decrease in phytoplankton species diversity after atmospheric SRP inputs. Since changes in climate will presumably lead to an alteration in dust export, these results point to the need of further studies on the potential effects of this alteration on bacterioplankton and phytoplankton dynamics in remote oligotrophic systems.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1015-1621	 	"[Reche, Isabel; Morales-Baquero, Rafael] Univ Granada, Inst Agua, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Pulido-Villena, Elvira; Reche, Isabel; Morales-Baquero, Rafael] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Pulido-Villena, E (reprint author), CNRS, UMR 7093, Lab Oceanog Villefranche sur Mer, Caserne Nicolas,Quai Darse,BP 8, F-06238 Villefranche Sur Mer, France.; pulido-villena@obs-vlfr.fr"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s00027-007-0944-8	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Quesada-Rubio,Jose-Manuel;Huete-Morales,Maria-Dolores;Del-Moral-Avila,Maria-Jose;Navarrete-Alvarez,Esteban;Rosales-Moreno,Maria-Jesus"	Impact of Environmental and Human Factors on Rural Fire Occurrence	Environmental Engineering and Management Journal	 	2011	DEC	10	12	1857	1863	"environmental factor;forest fire;human factor;statistical analysis;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Understanding the influence of environmental factors and human activities on fire occurrence in rural areas is of considerable interest in order to facilitate effective prevention strategies. The newly named Natural Area of Sierra Nevada (both a National and Natural Park) is one of the larger areas of environmental and tourism interest in Spain and includes, among other areas, much of Granada Alpujarra and Almeria Alpujarra and the outskirts of the principal ski resort. These areas receive each year thousands of visitors of different kinds (sports, cultural, etc.) which, together with other factors, clearly influence the impact and the possibility of fire occurrence. This paper presents a selection of the factors which have the greatest influence on the probability of a fire occurrence and uses a multivariate statistical technique that considers as influential variables several selected factors of environmental type, factors of human type, factors of land holdings type, etc.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1582-9596	 	"[Quesada-Rubio, Jose-Manuel; Huete-Morales, Maria-Dolores; Del-Moral-Avila, Maria-Jose; Navarrete-Alvarez, Esteban; Rosales-Moreno, Maria-Jesus] Univ Granada, Dept Stat & Operat Res, Fac Sci, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Quesada-Rubio, JM (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Stat & Operat Res, Fac Sci, Avda Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; quesada@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Raez-Bravo,Arian;Enrique Granados,Jose;Joaquin Ceron,Jose;Javier Cano-Manuel,Francisco;Fandos,Paulino;Maria Perez,Jesus;Espinosa,Jose;Casimiro Soriguer,Ramon;Ramon Lopez-Olvera,Jorge"	Acute phase proteins increase with sarcoptic mange status and severity in Iberian ibex (Capra pyrenaica, Schinz 1838)	Parasitology research	Parasitol.Res.	2015	NOV	114	11	4005	4010	"Acute phase proteins;Capra pyrenaica;Iberian ibex;Sarcoptes scabiei;Sarcoptic mange;SPANISH IBEX;SCABIEI;EPIDEMIOLOGY;INFLAMMATION;INFESTATION;HAPTOGLOBIN;CHEMISTRY;DISEASE;CHAMOIS;BIOLOGY;Parasitology ER"	Sarcoptic mange is a contagious skin disease caused by Sarcoptes scabiei, affecting both domestic and wild mammals, including the Iberian ibex (Capra pyrenaica), a medium-sized mountain ungulate almost endemic to the Iberian Peninsula. Acute phase proteins (APPs) could be an indicator of sarcoptic mange disease and severity in Iberian ibex. Serum samples from 131 healthy and sarcoptic mange-affected Iberian ibexes were collected from 2005 to 2012 in Sierra Nevada Natural Space in southern Spain. Serum alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (AGP), serum amyloid A (SAA) and haptoglobin (Hp) concentrations were quantified, and statistically significant differences according to sarcoptic mange disease and severity were assessed. Both AGP and SAA were significantly higher in the sarcoptic mange-affected ibexes than in the healthy ones as well as in the severely affected ibexes as compared to those with less than 50 % of the body surface affected. For the first time, changes in APP are reported in relation to sarcoptic mange in Iberian ibex. It is also reported for the first time that the intensity of APP increase depends on the severity of sarcoptic mange, which could be related with the pathological secondary amyloidosis, leading to organ dysfunction in severely mange-affected animals. Species and population differences in the increase of APP in response to sarcoptic mange could indicate individual and population differences in the immune capability of each population to deal with mange, population prevalence and mortality being the last indicators of such sensitivity.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0932-0113	 	"[Raez-Bravo, Arian; Ramon Lopez-Olvera, Jorge] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Dept Med & Cirurgia Anim, Serv Ecopatol Fauna Salvatge SEFaS, E-08193 Barcelona, Spain. [Enrique Granados, Jose; Javier Cano-Manuel, Francisco] Espacio Nat Sierra Nevada, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Joaquin Ceron, Jose] Univ Murcia, Fac Vet, Dept Med & Cirugia Anim, E-30100 Murcia, Spain. [Fandos, Paulino] Agencia Medio Ambiente & Agua, E-41092 Seville, Spain. [Maria Perez, Jesus; Espinosa, Jose] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, E-23071 Jaen, Spain. [Casimiro Soriguer, Ramon] CSIC, Estn Biol Donana, E-41092 Seville, Spain.; Lopez-Olvera, JR (reprint author), Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Dept Med & Cirurgia Anim, Serv Ecopatol Fauna Salvatge SEFaS, E-08193 Barcelona, Spain.; arian.raez@gmail.com; josee.granados.ext@juntadeandalucia.es; jjceron@um.es; franciscoj.canomanuel@juntadeandalucia.es; pfandos@agenciamedioambienteyagua.es; jperez@ujaen.es; jcerrato@ujaen.es; soriguer@ebd.csic.es; Jordi.Lopez.Olvera@uab.cat"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s00436-015-4628-3	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Rams,Susana;Werner,Olaf;Ros,Rosa M."	Updated checklist of the Bryophytes from the Sierra Nevada Mountains (S of Spain)	Cryptogamie Bryologie	 	2014	JUL	35	3	261	311	"Updated catalogue;Mosses;Liverworts;Hornworts;High Mountain;Mediterranean;IBERIAN PENINSULA;ANNOTATED CHECKLIST;SOUTHERN SPAIN;EUROPE;POTTIACEAE;RECORDS;FLORA;MUSCI;MACARONESIA;BRYOPSIDA;Plant Sciences ER"	A revised and updated checklist of the bryophytes of the Sierra Nevada Mountains (Southern Spain) is presented, based on a compilation of bibliographic records, a revision of herbarium specimens and extensive field work. The Sierra Nevada, which occupies around 2000 km(2), is the southernmost mountain range in continental Europe. It has a wide diversity of habitats due to its range of altitude, a variable landscape, geological substrata and soil, hydrological resources, climate, etc. It is therefore of great botanical interest within the Mediterranean Region. A total of 395 taxa are currently accepted in the area: 2 Anthocerophyta, 69 Marchantiophyta and 324 Bryophyta (excluding infraspecific taxa, there are 2 species of hornworts, 68 species of liverworts and 309 species of mosses). The total number of species represents 21.8% of the European, 24.2% of the Mediterranean and 35.3% of the Iberian bryoflora. In addition, a total of 35 taxa are considered to be doubtfully present in the area, and 34 are excluded from the final list. Among the accepted species, three are included in the category of Critically Endangered in the Spanish Red List of threatened bryophytes, one is Endangered, 19 are Vulnerable, and one is considered Extinct in the studied area. The main threats for bryophytes in the area are analyzed. The original material of Bryum perremotifolium Ther., from the Sierra Nevada, is lectotypified and reidentified as Bryum schleicheri.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1290-0796	 	"[Rams, Susana] Univ Granada, Ctr Magisterio La Inmaculada, E-18013 Granada, Spain. [Werner, Olaf; Ros, Rosa M.] Univ Murcia, Dept Biol Vegetal Bot, E-30100 Murcia, Spain.; Ros, RM (reprint author), Univ Murcia, Dept Biol Vegetal Bot, Campus Espinardo, E-30100 Murcia, Spain.; rmros@um.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.7872/cryb.v35.iss3.2014.261	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Reboleiro-Rivas,P.;Juarez-Jimenez,B.;Martinez-Toledo,M., V.;Rodelas,B.;Andrade,L.;Gonzalez-Lopez,J.;Fenice,M."	Bacterial Communities' Structure in a High mountain lake during the ice-free season: cultural and PCR-TGGE investigations	International Journal of Environmental Research	 	2013	SUM	7	3	785	796	"High Mountain Lake;Bacterial community;Cultural methods;PCR-TGGE;global changes;GRADIENT GEL-ELECTROPHORESIS;16S RIBOSOMAL-RNA;HETEROTROPHIC BACTERIA;PHYLOGENETIC DIVERSITY;ORGANIC-MATTER;DUST INPUTS;BACTERIOPLANKTON;CULTIVATION;DYNAMICS;SOIL;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	"La Caldera is a high mountain lake located in Sierra Nevada, Spain. For its position and characteristics it is considered as an important ""sensor"" for global changes. Water samples were collected during the ice-free season in order to observe changes in the bacterial community structure. Experiments were carried out complementing culture and culture-independent methods. Strong variations of the bacterial communities were recorded along the sampling period in particular regarding number and phylogenetic relationships of the microorganisms detected. At the season beginning, bacterial counts were rather high but strains belonged only to beta- and gamma-Proteobacteria. By contrast, in the middle of the season, possibly due to external inputs, total number of bacteria decreased but other phylogenetic groups, such as alpha-proteobacteria, Actinobacteria and Firmicute appeared. On the whole, Proteobacteria were the dominant microbiota. Bacterial diversity and presence of most abundant species were analysed by PCR-TGGE. Sequencing of TGGE bands confirmed that prevalent Bacteria populations were evolutively close to Proteobacteria with predominance of alpha- and beta-Proteobacteria. Analysis of diversity and functional organization suggested that ""La Caldera"" bacterial microbiota, typical of oligotrophic and/or extreme environments with low habitability, was characterized by a community organized in an adequate distribution of dominant and resilient species. Although rather specialized, the community presented a sufficient functionality and flexibility to react to changing and stressing conditions. However, along the ice-free season, the community evolved showing more specialized populations with less adaptation abilities. This is the first work complementing cultural and cultural-independent methods for the ""La Caldera"" lake."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1735-6865	 	"[Reboleiro-Rivas, P.; Juarez-Jimenez, B.; Martinez-Toledo, M., V; Rodelas, B.; Andrade, L.; Gonzalez-Lopez, J.; Fenice, M.] Univ Granada, Dept Microbiol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Reboleiro-Rivas, P.; Juarez-Jimenez, B.; Martinez-Toledo, M., V; Rodelas, B.; Andrade, L.; Gonzalez-Lopez, J.; Fenice, M.] Univ Granada, Inst Agua, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Fenice, M.] Univ Tuscia, Dipartimento Sci Ecol & Biol, I-01100 Viterbo, Italy.; Fenice, M (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Microbiol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; fenice@unitus.it"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Reguera,Senda;Zamora-Camacho,Francisco J.;Moreno-Rueda,Gregorio"	The lizard Psammodromus algirus (Squamata: Lacertidae) is darker at high altitudes	Biological Journal of the Linnean Society	Biol.J.Linn.Soc.	2014	MAY	112	1	132	141	"body colour;altitudinal gradient;ultraviolet radiation;thermal melanism;darkened coloration;UV-B RADIATION;COLOR PATTERN;MICROGEOGRAPHIC VARIATION;ANOLIS-CAROLINENSIS;CORDYLID LIZARDS;RANA-TEMPORARIA;ARCTIC DAPHNIA;COMMON FROG;POPULATIONS;Evolutionary Biology ER"	Altitudinal gradients offer a good opportunity to study organisms' adaptations to clinal environmental variables. Regarding altitude, the most influential variables on organisms are temperature and ultraviolet (UV) solar radiation, the first decreasing and the second increasing with altitude. Both variables affect ectotherms' biology, as ectotherms depend on environmental temperature for thermoregulation, frequently being heliotherms. Here, we studied dorsal coloration in the lizard Psammodromus algirus (Linnaeus, 1758) along a wide altitudinal gradient (2200 m) in Sierra Nevada (south-east Spain). We hypothesize that the skin will be darker with altitude, i.e. in environments with lower temperatures and higher UV radiation intensity. Results show that individual dorsal colorations became darker at high altitude. We propose two non-mutually exclusive explanations for this result: (1) darker dorsal surface would favour faster warming at high altitudes, where temperature is lower, and (2) darker dorsal surface would protect against UV radiation, stronger at high altitudes. We found significant relationships between both temperature and UV radiation and population dorsal darkness, giving mixed support for the two explanations. Moreover, dorsal hue was positively correlated with substrate hue, suggesting that hue evolved to maximize crypsis. Our study therefore suggests that geographical variation in dorsal coloration in this lizard is adaptive, and darkness coloration might have evolved in response to adverse conditions (low temperature and high UV radiation) at high altitudes. (c) 2014 The Linnean Society of London, Biological Journal of the Linnean Society, 2014,112, 132-141.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0024-4066	 	"[Reguera, Senda; Zamora-Camacho, Francisco J.; Moreno-Rueda, Gregorio] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Reguera, S (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; sreguera@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/bij.12250	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Reguera,Senda;Zamora-Camacho,Francisco J.;Trenzado,Cristina E.;Sanz,Ana;Moreno-Rueda,Gregorio"	Oxidative stress decreases with elevation in the lizard Psammodromus algirus	Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology A-Molecular & Integrative Physiology	 	2014	JUN	172	 	52	56	"Antioxidant enzymes;Antioxidant protection;Elevation gradient;Lipid peroxidation;Lizards;Ultraviolet radiation;ULTRAVIOLET-B RADIATION;RANA-TEMPORARIA EMBRYOS;LIFE-HISTORY;EVOLUTION;ANTIOXIDANT DEFENSES;ALTITUDINAL GRADIENT;ZEBRA FINCHES;UV-RADIATION;DNA-DAMAGE;RESPONSES;GROWTH;Biochemistry & Molecular Biology;Physiology;Zoology ER"	Oxidative stress is considered one of the main ecological and evolutionary forces. Several environmental stressors vary geographically and thus organisms inhabiting different sites face different oxidant environments. Nevertheless, there is scarce information about how oxidative damage and antioxidant defences vary geographically in animals. Here we study how oxidative stress varies from lowlands (300-700 m asl) to highlands (2200-2500 m asl) in the lizard Psammodromus algirus. To accomplish this, antioxidant enzymatic activity (catalase, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, glutathione transferase, DT-diaphorase) and lipid peroxidation were assayed in tissue samples from the lizards' tail. Lipid peroxidation was higher in individuals from lowlands than from highlands, indicating higher oxidative stress in lowland lizards. These results suggest that environmental conditions are less oxidant at high elevations with respect to low ones. Therefore, our study shows that oxidative stress varies geographically, which should have important consequences for our understanding of geographic variation in physiology and life-history of organisms. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1095-6433	 	"[Reguera, Senda; Zamora-Camacho, Francisco J.; Trenzado, Cristina E.; Sanz, Ana; Moreno-Rueda, Gregorio] Univ Granada, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Trenzado, Cristina E.] Univ Granada, Dept Cell Biol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Reguera, S (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Zool, Avda Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; sreguera@ugr.es; zamcam@ugr.es; ctrenzad@ugr.es; anasanz@ugr.es; gmr@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.cbpa.2014.02.018	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Rodriguez,Ferran A.;Iglesias,Xavier;Feriche,Belen;Calderon,Carmen;Abalos,Xavier;Vazquez,Jairo;Barrero,Anna;Rodriguez,Lara;Hynynen,Esa;Levine,Benjamin D."	Effects of Altitude Training on Heart Rate Variability in Orthostatic Test in Elite Swimmers	Medicine and science in sports and exercise	Med.Sci.Sports Exerc.	2012	MAY	44	 	364	364	Sport Sciences ER	 	"PT: J; SU: 2"	 		 	 	 	 				 	0195-9131	 	"[Rodriguez, Ferran A.; Iglesias, Xavier; Abalos, Xavier; Vazquez, Jairo; Barrero, Anna; Rodriguez, Lara] Univ Barcelona, INEFC, Barcelona, Spain. [Feriche, Belen] Univ Granada, FCAFD, Granada, Spain. [Calderon, Carmen] Sierra Nevada High Altitude Training Ctr, Granada, Spain. [Hynynen, Esa] KIHU Res Inst Olymp Sports, Jyvaskyla, Finland. [Levine, Benjamin D.] IEEM UT SW, Dallas, TX USA."	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Book, Whole	"Rodriguez-Fernandez,Jose;Azor,Antonio;Miguel Azanon,Jose"	The Betic intramontane basins (SE spain): stratigraphy, subsidence, and tectonic history	 	 	2012	 	 	 	479	 	"extensional tectonics;strike-slip faults;Betic-Rif orogen;Western Mediterranean;Alboran basin;CORDILLERAS SOUTHERN SPAIN;MESSINIAN SALINITY;CRISIS;APATITE FISSION-TRACK;EXTENSIONAL BASIN;LATE MIOCENE;ALBORAN;DOMAIN;EASTERN BETICS;SIERRA-NEVADA;GIBRALTAR ARC;Geology ER"	One of the most striking features of the Betic Cordillera in Southern Spain is the importance of Late Miocene extensional tectonics, representing a late stage subsequent to a rather poorly characterized compressional stage. Low-angle normal faults have been responsible for the exhumation of the metamorphic rocks constituting the Internal Zone or Alboran domain, as well as for the formation of sedimentary basins, commonly referred to as Betic intramontane basins. The Betic intramontane basins are located either on the Alboran domain or at the contact between the Alboran domain and the External Zone. All of these basins have a common sedimentary evolution, characterized by three main sequences separated by unconformities of regional significance. The lower (Upper Serravallian-Lower Tortonian) and upper sequences (uppermost Tortonian-Pleistocene) consist of continental clastic sedimentary rocks. The intermediate sequence (Upper-Tortonian-Upper Messinian) is made of marine sedimentary rocks, representing a very short-lived diachronic inundation, which lasted longer in the eastern and southern parts of the Betics. Subsidence rates in the basins reached maximum values during Late Serravallian-Early Tortonian times (13-7 Ma), and gradually decreased toward Pleistocene time. Uplift in the sierras surrounding the basins was roughly in accordance with the subsidence in the basins. The onset of subsidence of the Betic intramontane basins was coeval with the onset of extension in the deeper tectonometamorphic units of the Alboran domain, in Late Serravallian-Early Tortonian times. From latemost Tortonian on, the Africa-Europe convergence direction changed, giving way to E-W trending compressional folds, NW-SE oriented high-angle normal faults, as well as E-W and NE-SW trending strike-slip faults. These structures deformed the basins and their basements in a complex way, with coeval compression, exhumation and extension. Later on, strike-slip faults strongly affected some of the basin margins, obliterating the previous extensional structures. A lithosphere-scale scenario characterized by mantle delamination and/or subduction roll-back/slab-detachment provides the framework to explain the Betic intramontane basins.	PT: B	 	Busby,C. Azor,A.	 	 	 	 				 	"978-1-4443-4713-5; 978-1-4051-9465-5"	 	"[Rodriguez-Fernandez, Jose; Miguel Azanon, Jose] Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra CSIC UGR, Granada 18071, Spain. [Azor, Antonio; Miguel Azanon, Jose] Univ Granada, Dept Geodinam, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Rodriguez-Fernandez, J (reprint author), Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra CSIC UGR, Ave Palmeras, Granada 18071, Spain."	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Rodriguez-Peces,M. J.;Garcia-Mayordomo,J.;Azanon,J. M.;Jabaloy,A."	GIS application for regional assessment of seismically induced slope failures in the Sierra Nevada Range, South Spain, along the Padul Fault	Environmental Earth Sciences	 	2014	OCT	72	7	2423	2435	"Betic Cordillera;Landslide;Newmark;Rock fall;Site amplification;WENCHUAN EARTHQUAKE;INDUCED LANDSLIDES;GROUND FAILURE;UMBRIA-MARCHE;ACTIVE FAULTS;MIDDLE-EAST;PARAMETERS;EQUATIONS;EUROPE;MODELS;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Geology;Water Resources ER"	Complete rupture of the Padul Fault represents one of the largest plausible earthquakes in the Sierra Nevada Range, one of the most seismically active regions of Spain. We performed a regional assessment of earthquake-triggered slope instabilities in the western part of the range to determine the most likely types of failures from such an earthquake in the region and suggest where such failures have a higher likelihood of occurring. These results are broadly useful for management of regional life-lines and future development. First, a slope-instability inventory of the Sierra Nevada was produced to identify the most common instability types. Subsequently, the Newmark's sliding rigid-block methodology, implemented in a geographic information system, was used to obtain the distribution of Newmark displacements in the area considering a M (w) 6.6 earthquake on the Padul Fault. The Newmark displacements were then compared to the distribution of the inventoried slope instabilities to identify the areas where seismicity could reactivate old slope instabilities or generate new ones, and to identify the involved landslide typology. The most likely seismically induced slope instabilities in the Sierra Nevada are rock falls and rock slides. These types of instabilities could be triggered by Newmark displacements of 2 cm or less.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1866-6280	 	"[Rodriguez-Peces, M. J.] Univ Complutense Madrid, Dept Geodinam, E-28040 Madrid, Spain. [Garcia-Mayordomo, J.] IGME, Tres Cantos, Madrid, Spain. [Azanon, J. M.; Jabaloy, A.] Univ Granada, Dept Geodinam, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Azanon, J. M.] CSIC, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra UGR, Granada, Spain.; Rodriguez-Peces, MJ (reprint author), Univ Complutense Madrid, Dept Geodinam, Ciudad Univ S-N, E-28040 Madrid, Spain.; martinjr@geo.ucm.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s12665-014-3151-7	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Rolland,A.;Lopez de Coca,P.;Costa,V.;Rodriguez,E.;Olivares,I."	Stromgren photometry of the delta Scuti star 67 UMa	Proceedings of the Second Helas International Conference: Helioseismology, Asteroseismology and Mhd Connections	 	2008	 	118	 	12070	12070	"CATALOG;Astronomy & Astrophysics;Geochemistry & Geophysics ER"	We present preliminaxy results derived from the data obtained during five observing campaigns in 2001, 2003, 2004, 2006 and 2007, of the delta Sct-type variable star 67 UMa, at Sierra Nevada Observatory, Spain. The analysis of the data was performed by means of the Fourier Tansform method, and results axe shown. The intrinsic b-y, m(1), c(1) values axe derived and the physical parameters axe determined.	PT: S	 	Gizon,L. Roth,M.	Journal of Physics Conference Series	 	 	 				 	1742-6588	 	"[Rolland, A.; Lopez de Coca, P.; Costa, V.; Rodriguez, E.; Olivares, I.] CSIC, Inst Astrofis Andalucia, E-18080 Granada, Spain.; Rolland, A (reprint author), CSIC, Inst Astrofis Andalucia, POB 3004, E-18080 Granada, Spain.; angel@iaa.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1088/1742-6596/118/1/012070	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sainz-Bariain,Marta;Zamora-Munoz,Carmen"	The larva and life history of Stenophylax nycterobius (McLachlan, 1875) (Trichoptera: Limnephilidae) in high mountain streams (Sierra Nevada, Spain) and key to the Iberian larvae of the genus	Zootaxa	 	2012	Sep-14	 	3483	71	81	"Stenophylax;Larval description;Key;Life cycle;Phenology;Iberian Peninsula;PENINSULA;DIAPAUSE;Zoology ER"	The larva and pupa of Stenophylax nycterobius (McLachlan, 1875) were briefly, although insufficiently, described by Lepneva (1966). Here, the larva is fully described and figured. Its most important diagnostic features to distinguish it from other species are illustrated. A key is presented for the identification of the known Stenophylax larvae of the Iberian Peninsula. Descriptions of its habitat, life cycle and its particular life history in high mountain streams from the southeast of the Iberian Peninsula (Sierra Nevada) are included.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1175-5326	 	"[Sainz-Bariain, Marta; Zamora-Munoz, Carmen] Univ Granada, Dept Zool, Fac Sci, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Sainz-Bariain, M (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Zool, Fac Sci, Campus Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; msainzb@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sanchez-Castillo,Pedro M.;Linares-Cuesta,J. Eduardo;Fernandez-Moreno,D."	Changes in epilithic diatom assemblages in a Mediterranean high mountain lake (Laguna de La Caldera, Sierra Nevada, Spain) after a period of drought	Journal of Limnology	 	2008	 	67	1	49	55	"diatoms;epilithon;oligotrophic lakes;nutrients;Sierra Nevada;Spain;ISLAND;INFERENCES;WATERS;FLORA;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	"The epilithic diatom assemblages studied in the high mountain take ""La Caldera"" (Granada, Spain)from 1996 to 1998 went through two clearly different stages. The initial one, in 1996, corresponded to the reflooding of the basin after a severe drought and was composed mainly of the colonising species Fragilaria rumpens, together with a lesser presence of Nitzschia sublincaris and Hantzschia amphioxys. The predominant presence of F. rumpens at the end of the summer of 2006 coincided with low species diversity (values of Shannon and Wiener Index: 0.3-0.6). During the following two years another assemblage established itself dominated by Achnanthidium minutissimum, which is considered to be more stable and widespread among the lakes of the Sierra Nevada. The most notable subdominant species (less than 20% of relative abundance) in this assemblage were: Encyonema minutum, Encyonopsis microcephala and Navicula cryptocephala. The diversity values during this second period were much higher than in the first: 1.0-2.2. Nutrient concentrations were measured separately in the linnetic (epilimnetic) and benthic (epilithic) environments. These abiotic parameters show that the dynamics of ammonia and silica were much the same in both, showing a gradual decrease from the beginning to the end of the study period. Epilimnetic phosphorus followed a similar pattern to ammonia and silica. In the epilithon, nitrates and phosphates increased during the first year, only to descend notably during the second. The effect of other environmental parameters such as temperature and the preceding drought on the dynamics of the diatom assemblage are discussed. Ratio DIN:SRP let its test the different degrees of phosphorus limitation in epilithon and epilimnion environments; our results suggest that phosphorus limitation of primary production in high mountain lakes is much more severe in the limnetic environment that it is in the epilithon."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1129-5767	 	"[Sanchez-Castillo, Pedro M.; Fernandez-Moreno, D.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Bot, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Linares-Cuesta, J. Eduardo] Herbario Univ Granada, Granada 18071, Spain.; Sanchez-Castillo, PM (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Bot, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; psanchez@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sanchez-Maranon,M.;Martin-Garcia,J. M.;Delgado,R."	Effects of the fabric on the relationship between aggregate stability and color in a Regosol-Umbrisol soilscape	Geoderma	Geoderma	2011	Apr-15	162	01-Feb	86	95	"Coarse-textured soils;Binding agents;Scanning electron microscopy;Wet sieving;Diffuse spectral reflectance;SOIL-STRUCTURE;REFLECTANCE SPECTROSCOPY;BIOLOGICAL BINDING;ORGANIC-MATTER;PARTICLE-SIZE;MANAGEMENT;COMPONENTS;Agriculture ER"	Differences in fabric may explain why relationships between aggregate stability and soil color have never been reported for a relatively narrow-ranging population of soils. Therefore, three size fractions (1-2,0.25-1, and 0.05-0.25 mm) of 25 topsoils (75 samples) from a Regosol-Umbrisol soilscape (Sierra Nevada, SE Spain) were characterized for fabric by scanning electron microscopy, aggregate stability by wet sieving, and CIELAB color (h(ab), L*, C*(ab)) by diffuse spectral reflectance. A stability-index ranking from 0.17 to 0.98 paralleled a ranking of hat, (88.5 to 66.1), L* (48.3 to 30.2), and C*(ab) (7.6 to 18.9): that is, the progressive increase in stability was related to increased soil redness, darkness, and chromaticity. The reason was an increase in binding agents such as clay, organic C, and free forms coating the surfaces of the aggregates. The values of the correlation coefficients (0.55 to 0.82), factor-analysis variances (73 to 88%), and multiple-regression coefficients (0.40 to 0.65) indicated, however, that much of the variability in stability cannot be statistically explained by color changes. Size fractions of soils with a similar binding-agent content did not significantly (P<0.05) differ in color but they did in aggregate stability. They also showed fabric differences, indicating that the coatings are similarly effective as coloring, while their stabilizing capacity is regulated by size, shape, and arrangement of particles. A close packing of mixed silt sizes stacked like roof tiles resulted in a stable fabric itself. Color can indicate aggregate stability, depending on the binding-agent content, but, being insensitive to the inner particle arrangement, it cannot provide a complete prediction. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0016-7061	 	"[Sanchez-Maranon, M.; Martin-Garcia, J. M.; Delgado, R.] Univ Granada, Dpto Edafol & Quim Agr, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Sanchez-Maranon, M (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dpto Edafol & Quim Agr, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; msm@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.geoderma.2011.01.008	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Santamaria,Silvia;Galeano,Javier;Manuel Pastor,Juan;Mendez,Marcos"	Robustness of alpine pollination networks: effects of network structure and consequences for endemic plants	Arctic Antarctic and Alpine Research	 	2014	AUG	46	3	568	580	"HIGH TEMPERATE ANDES;MUTUALISTIC NETWORKS;SAMPLING COMPLETENESS;POLLEN LIMITATION;CLIMATE-CHANGE;CENTRAL CHILE;FOOD WEBS;REPRODUCTION;DYNAMICS;PATTERNS;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Physical Geography ER"	Global threats to plant-pollinator interactions are potentially serious in alpine ecosystems, which combine great diversity with particular fragility. We utilized tools from complex network theory to assess the robustness to species extinction of two Spanish alpine pollination networks. A comparison with ten additional alpine and subalpine pollination (ASP) networks allowed us to give our assessment a broader scope and provide a general view of ASP network robustness. We found a broad range of robustness among ASP networks. The two Spanish pollination networks ranked intermediate to high in robustness. This could be due to two of their structural features, connectance (proportion of potential interactions actually observed) and asymmetry (normalized difference between pollinator and plant richness), which showed a positive relationship with network robustness. A finer-scale focus on the two Spanish networks did not reveal differences between endemic and nonendemic plants in their functional role within the network but indicated that they differed in their robustness to pollinator extinction. Contrasting patterns across networks suggested that endemic robustness depends on community particularities. To improve the utility of robustness assessment as a conservation tool, we should increase our understanding on (1) the order in which network species will get extinct, (2) how species rewire once they have lost their partners, and (3) how much species depend on their mutualistic interaction.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1523-0430	 	"[Santamaria, Silvia; Mendez, Marcos] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Area Biodiversidad & Conservac, E-28933 Madrid, Spain. [Galeano, Javier; Manuel Pastor, Juan] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Ciencia & Tecnol Aplicadas IT Agr, E-28040 Madrid, Spain. [Galeano, Javier; Manuel Pastor, Juan] Univ Politecn Madrid, Grp Sistemas Complejos, E-28040 Madrid, Spain.; Santamaria, S (reprint author), Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Area Biodiversidad & Conservac, C Tulipan S-N, E-28933 Madrid, Spain.; silvia.santamaria@urjc.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1657/1938-4246-46.3.568	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sanz de Galdeano,C.;Garcia-Tortosa,F. J.;Pelaez,J. A.;Alfaro,P.;Azanon,J. M.;Galindo-Zaldivar,J.;Lopez Casado,C.;Lopez Garrido,A. C.;Rodriguez-Fernandez,J.;Ruano,P."	Main active faults in the Granada and Guadix-Baza Basins (Betic Cordillera)	Journal of Iberian Geology	 	2012	 	38	1	209	223	"Active Tectonics;seismotectonics;Granada Basin;Guadix-Baza Basin;Betic Cordillera;SE SPAIN;SOUTHERN SPAIN;SIERRA-NEVADA;DEFORMATION;EARTHQUAKE;MAGNITUDE;PATTERNS;SCALE;RATES;AREA;Geology ER"	The Granada and Guadix-Baza Basins, the largest Neogene-Quaternary intramontane basins of the Betic Cordillera (southern Spain), undergo active deformation with an associated moderate level of seismic activity. This deformation is controlled by a NNW-SSE compressive regime and an approximate orthogonal tensional regime. The compression produced N70 degrees E to E-W folds of several scales, the Sierra Nevada antiform being the largest one. The tension is accommodated mainly by NW-SE active normal faults, the most notable being the Baza Fault, in the Guadix-Baza Basin, and the Granada, Sierra Elvira-Dilar and Padul-Durcal Faults, in the Granada Basin. In addition, other active faults with different orientations also exist, such as the Alfahuara-Botardo and the Galera faults in the Guadix-Baza Basin, and the Huenes, Obeilar-Pinos Puente and N of Sierra Tejeda Faults in the Granada Basin. Moreover, in several sectors, the presence of orthogonal normal fault sets suggests alternating trends or even radial extension. Slip rates of these active faults, based on geologic markers, vary between 0.06 and 0.5 mm/year. Estimates for the maximum expected magnitude of earthquakes caused by these faults vary between M-W 6.0 and 7.0. The N of Sierra Tejeda and the Baza Faults, the largest faults in the Granada and Guadix-Baza Basins, respectively, have the greatest seismic potential. They could cause events up to a magnitude of M-W 6.5-7.0, although their reference earthquakes, computed for a return period of 475 years, are on the order of M-W 5.0-5.5.	"PT: J; SI: SI"	 		 	 	 	 				 	1698-6180	 	"[Sanz de Galdeano, C.; Azanon, J. M.; Galindo-Zaldivar, J.; Lopez Garrido, A. C.; Rodriguez-Fernandez, J.; Ruano, P.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, IACT CSIC UGR, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Garcia-Tortosa, F. J.] Univ Jaen, Dpto Geol, Jaen 23071, Spain. [Pelaez, J. A.] Univ Jaen, Dpto Fis, Jaen 23071, Spain. [Alfaro, P.] Univ Alicante, Dpto Ciencias Tierra & Medio Ambiente, E-03080 Alicante, Spain. [Azanon, J. M.; Galindo-Zaldivar, J.; Ruano, P.] Univ Granada, Dpto Geodinam, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Lopez Casado, C.] Univ Granada, Dpto Fis Teor & Cosmos, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; de Galdeano, CS (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, IACT CSIC UGR, Campus Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; csanz@ugr.es; gtortosa@ujaen.es; japelaez@ujaen.es; pedro.alfaro@ua.es; jazanon@ugr.es; jgalindo@ugr.es; clcasado@ugr.es; aclopez@ugr.es; jrodrig@ugr.es; pruano@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.5209/rev_JIGE.2012.v38.n1.39215	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sanz,Ana;Trenzado,Cristina E.;Lopez-Rodriguez,Manuel J.;Furne,Miriam;Manuel Tierno de Figueroa,J."	Study of Antioxidant Defense in Four Species of Perloidea (Insecta, Plecoptera)	Zoological Science	Zool.Sci.	2010	DEC	27	12	952	958	"Plecoptera;antioxidant enzymes;oxidative stress;nymphal stage;ecological adaptation;GLUTATHIONE S-TRANSFERASES;SUPEROXIDE-DISMUTASE;DROSOPHILA-MELANOGASTER;STONEFLIES PLECOPTERA;FRESH-WATER;CATALASE;ENZYMES;METABOLISM;DIVERSITY;ERYTHROCUPREIN;Zoology ER"	The aim of the present work is to conduct a comparative study of oxidative states in the nymphs of four species of Plecoptera belonging to the superfamily Perloidea: Perla marginata (Panzer, 1799) (family Perlidae), Guadalgenus franzi (Aubert, 1963), Isoperla curtata Navas, 1924, and Isoperla grammatica (Poda, 1761) (family Perlodidae) in relation to their ecological and biological characteristics. For this, the activity of the following antioxidant enzymes was determined: superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione peroxidase (GPX), glutathione transferase (GST), and DT-diaphorase (DTD), together with lipid peroxidation. Glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH) was also determined. The four species studied were selected based on significant ecological and biological differences. The results obtained when studying different indicative parameters of the oxidative state of the nymph of different species showed that each has an important enzymatic antioxidant potential, and that differences among species are conditioned by the duration of the nymphal development period more than by whether they come from permanent or temporary habitats. Thus, Plecoptera, although traditionally considered as typical inhabitants of permanent waters, seem to have sufficient variability in physiological mechanisms, together with behavioral and ecological adaptations, to cope with potentially unfavorable conditions that may occur in temporary waters.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0289-0003	 	"[Sanz, Ana; Trenzado, Cristina E.; Lopez-Rodriguez, Manuel J.; Furne, Miriam; Manuel Tierno de Figueroa, J.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Biol Anim, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; de Figueroa, JMT (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Biol Anim, Campus Fuentenueva, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; jmtdef@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.2108/zsj.27.952	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sarasa,M.;Serrano,E.;Perez,J. M.;Soriguer,R. C.;Gonzalez,G.;Joachim,J.;Fandos,P.;Granados,J. -E"	Effects of season, age and body condition on allocation to testes mass in Iberian ibex	Journal of zoology	J.Zool.	2010	JUN	281	2	125	131	"Capra pyrenaica;mating tactic;phenotypic plasticity;sperm competition;testis;ungulate;MALE REPRODUCTIVE SUCCESS;SPERM PRODUCTION-RATE;MALE SPANISH IBEX;CAPRA-PYRENAICA;SEXUAL SELECTION;INTRASPECIFIC VARIATION;MATING;SYSTEM;BIGHORN SHEEP;SMALL MAMMALS;SIZE;Zoology ER"	Sperm competition is a powerful evolutionary force, and understanding the factors that regulate testes characteristics may lead to a better understanding of the variability in male reproductive success. We explored the effects of age, body condition and season on relative testes mass in the Iberian ibex Capra pyrenaica. We analysed the variability of testes mass from 175 individuals, using a model selection approach based on Akaike's information criterion corrected for a small sample size. The results suggest that season, age and body condition influenced relative testes mass. Allocation to testes mass was greatest in the rutting season (autumn) and at ages that are associated with a subordinate status and a coursing, rather than mate-guarding, reproductive strategy. In addition, males in good condition had relatively heavier testes than those in poor condition. Thus, testes mass in Iberian ibex is governed by multiple factors, and this study leads to a better understanding of gonad plasticity in this polygamous ungulate. The effect of age matches the predictions from theoretical studies on sperm competition, which suggests greater allocation to testes in disadvantaged males.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0952-8369	 	"[Sarasa, M.; Perez, J. M.] Univ Jaen, Fac Ciencias Expt, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, E-23071 Jaen, Spain. [Sarasa, M.; Gonzalez, G.; Joachim, J.] INRA, Lab Comportement & Ecol Faunte Sauvage, Castanet Tolosan, France. [Serrano, E.] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Fac Vet, Serv Ecopatol Fauna Salvatge, Bellaterra, Spain. [Soriguer, R. C.] Estn Biol Donana, Seville, Spain. [Fandos, P.] EGMASA, Seville, Spain. [Granados, J. -E.] Espacio Nat Sierra Nevada, Granada, Spain.; Sarasa, M (reprint author), Univ Jaen, Fac Ciencias Expt, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, E-23071 Jaen, Spain.; mathieusar@hotmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/j.1469-7998.2009.00689.x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sarasa,M.;Soriguer,R. C.;Granados,J. -E;Casajus,N.;Perez,J. M."	Mismeasure of secondary sexual traits: an example with horn growth in the Iberian ibex	Journal of zoology	J.Zool.	2012	NOV	288	3	170	176	"bovids;Caprinae;methodological bias;phenotypic characterization;sexual selection;ungulates;weapons;MALE SPANISH IBEX;DEER CERVUS-ELAPHUS;CAPRA-PYRENAICA;FLUCTUATING;ASYMMETRY;REPRODUCTIVE SUCCESS;ALPINE IBEX;SELECTION;SIZE;AGE;LONGEVITY;Zoology ER"	Monitoring programmes and studies focused on secondary sexual characters (SSCs) depend on the accuracy of measurements. However, methods of measurements of SSC, such as horns of ungulates, vary throughout the literature. Thus, the accuracy of horn growth measurements as proxies of true horn growth and the comparability of results inferred from different horn growth measurements may be questionable. We used the horns of Iberian ibex Capra pyrenaica to compare horn growth measurements and to analyse reliability with true horn growth. Our results reveal that measurements used in previous studies differed substantially from true horn growth and volume estimated as a barrel appeared as the best proxy of annular segments of horns in the Iberian ibex. Horn growth measurements are not necessarily mutually comparable, just as classical measurements are not necessarily representative of true horn growth. We discuss the wider implications of these results and suggest that biological processes linked to horns of ungulates should be reappraised using improved and accurate measurements because horn growth pattern is a key factor in sustainable management and conservation plans of ungulate species around the world.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0952-8369	 	"[Sarasa, M.; Soriguer, R. C.; Granados, J. -E.; Perez, J. M.] Grp Biol Especies Cineget & Plagas, Seville, Spain. [Soriguer, R. C.] Estn Biol Donana, Seville, Spain. [Granados, J. -E.] Espacio Nat Sierra Nevada, Granada, Spain. [Casajus, N.] Univ Quebec, Chaire Rech Canada Conservat Ecosyst Nord, Rimouski, PQ G5L 3A1, Canada. [Soriguer, R. C.] Univ Quebec, Ctr Etud Nord, Rimouski, PQ G5L 3A1, Canada. [Perez, J. M.] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Jaen, Spain.; Sarasa, M (reprint author), 10 Pl Oustalots, F-64400 Oloron Sainte Marie, France.; mathieusar@hotmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/j.1469-7998.2012.00937.x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sarasa,Mathieu;Perez,Jesus M.;Granados,Jose-Enrique;Soriguer,Ramon C."	Is nursing a kid detrimental to nonimmunological compatibility to contact-transmitted foreign bodies in female Iberian ibex (Capra pyrenaica)?	Canadian journal of zoology	Can.J.Zool.	2012	OCT	90	10	1284	1289	"Capra pyrenaica;Iberian ibex;contact-transmitted parasitism;cost of reproduction;host compatibility;kid nursing;ungulates;REPRODUCTIVE EFFORT;HABITAT SELECTION;OVIS-CANADENSIS;ACTIVITY;BUDGET;GROOMING RATE;TRADE-OFFS;TICK LOAD;PARASITES;BEHAVIOR;HAIR;Zoology ER"	Reproductive costs may increase the susceptibility of breeding females to parasites. Compatibility may be modulated by immunity and nonimmunological factors. However, experimental tests attempting to unravel the role of nonimmunological compatibility to parasites are scarce. We experimentally infected breeding and nonbreeding females with pseudoectoparasites (PEPs) to analyse how nursing a kid affects neatness in the Iberian ibex (Capra pyrenaica Schinz, 1838). Our results revealed that nursing a kid does not seem detrimental to neatness in female Iberian ibex in terms of nonimmunological compatibility to contact-transmitted foreign bodies. Consequently, it seems that increased susceptibility of breeding females to contact-transmitted parasites may be mainly mediated by increased exposure or increased immunological compatibility to parasites.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0008-4301	 	"[Perez, Jesus M.] Univ Jaen, Fac Ciencias Expt, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, E-23071 Jaen, Spain. [Granados, Jose-Enrique] Espacio Nat Sierra Nevada, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Soriguer, Ramon C.] Estn Biol Donana CSIC, E-41092 Seville, Spain.; Sarasa, M (reprint author), 10 Pl Oustalots, F-64400 Oloron Sainte Marie, France.; mathieusar@hotmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1139/Z2012-095	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sarasa,Mathieu;Serrano,Emmanuel;Gonzalez,Georges;Granados,Jose-Enrique;Soriguer,Ramon C.;Perez,Jesus M.;Joachim,Jean"	Pseudoectoparasites: a new tool for exploring the relationship between host behaviour and ectoparasites	Animal Behaviour	Anim.Behav.	2009	MAY	77	5	1351	1356	"Capra pyrenaica;contact;experimentation;feeding;host behaviour;Iberian ibex;method;parasitism;ungulate;WHITE-TAILED DEER;SARCOPTIC MANGE;CAPRA-PYRENAICA;DOMINANCE RANK;CONTACT RATES;SPANISH IBEX;RHODAMINE-B;SOCIAL RANK;BODY-SIZE;PARASITES;Behavioral Sciences;Zoology ER"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0003-3472	 	"[Sarasa, Mathieu; Serrano, Emmanuel; Perez, Jesus M.] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Fac Ciencias Expt, E-23071 Jaen, Spain. [Sarasa, Mathieu; Gonzalez, Georges; Joachim, Jean] Inst Natl Rech Agronom, Lab Comportement & Ecol Faune Sauvage, Castanet Tolosan, France. [Serrano, Emmanuel] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Fac Vet, Serv Ecopatol Fauna Salvatge, Barcelona, Spain. [Granados, Jose-Enrique] Espacio Nat Sierra Nevada, Granada, Spain. [Soriguer, Ramon C.] Estac Biol Donana, E-41013 Seville, Spain.; Sarasa, M (reprint author), Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Fac Ciencias Expt, Campus Lagunillas,S-N, E-23071 Jaen, Spain.; mathieusar@hotmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.anbehav.2009.01.005	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sarasa,Mathieu;Serrano,Emmanuel;Soriguer,Ramon C.;Granados,Jose-Enrique;Fandos,Paulino;Gonzalez,Georges;Joachim,Jean;Perez,Jesus M."	Negative effect of the arthropod parasite, Sarcoptes scabiei, on testes mass in Iberian ibex, Capra pyrenaica	Veterinary parasitology	Vet.Parasitol.	2011	Feb-10	175	03-Apr	306	312	"Capra pyrenaica;Parasitic castration;Sarcoptes scabiei;Sarcoptic mange;Testis;Ungulate;REPRODUCTIVE SUCCESS;SPANISH IBEX;BODY-COMPOSITION;CHORIOPTIC MANGE;SPERM PRODUCTION;SOCIAL-BEHAVIOR;MALE-AGGRESSION;COMMON WOMBATS;MOUNTAIN HARES;BIGHORN RAMS;Parasitology;Veterinary Sciences ER"	Testes mass is a key factor in male reproductive success and is potentially exposed to so-called 'parasitic castration'. This is the result of the direct destruction or alteration of reproductive cell lineages (parasitic castration sensu stricto), or the indirect detrimental effects - for example, via body condition - on the ability of progenitors to produce or rear offspring (parasitic castration sensu lato). There are enormous gaps in our knowledge on the effects of parasites on the testes of wild mammals and in an attempt to rectify this dearth of data we examined the relationship between the skin parasite Sarcoptes scabiei and testes mass in Iberian ibex Capra pyrenaica. We considered data from 222 males that were culled in the population from the Sierra Nevada in Spain. Our results provide evidence that sarcoptic mange is associated with reduced size-corrected testes mass in Iberian ibex which supports the hypothesis that parasitism is a determining factor in gonad plasticity in male mammals. We discuss several hypothetical causes of this relationship and highlight the need to deepen the sub-lethal effects of pathogens if we are to accurately understand their modulator effects on host population dynamics. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0304-4017	 	"[Sarasa, Mathieu; Perez, Jesus M.] Univ Jaen, Fac Ciencias Expt, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, E-23071 Jaen, Spain. [Sarasa, Mathieu; Gonzalez, Georges; Joachim, Jean] INRA, Lab Comportement & Ecol Faune Sauvage, F-31326 Castanet Tolosan, France. [Serrano, Emmanuel] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Fac Vet, Serv Ecopatol Fauna Salvatge, E-08193 Bellaterra, Spain. [Soriguer, Ramon C.] Estac Biol Donana, E-41092 Seville, Spain. [Granados, Jose-Enrique] Espacio Nat Sierra Nevada, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Fandos, Paulino] EGMASA, E-41092 Seville, Spain.; Sarasa, M (reprint author), 10 Pl Oustalots, F-64400 Oloron Sainte Marie, France.; mathieusar@hotmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.vetpar.2010.10.024	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Sarp,Gulcan	"Tectonic controls of the North Anatolian Fault System (NAFS) on the geomorphic evolution of the alluvial fans and fan catchments in Erzincan pull-apart basin; Turkey"	Journal of Asian Earth Sciences	 	2015	FEB	98	 	116	125	"Alluvial fans;Tectonic activity;Morphometric indices;Erzincan basin;North Anatolian Fault System;EASTERN TURKEY;MORPHOMETRIC INDEXES;FRACTAL DIMENSION;BETIC;CORDILLERA;SIERRA-NEVADA;ZONE;SPAIN;SEDIMENTATION;SEDIMENTOLOGY;DEFORMATION;Geology ER"	The Erzincan pull-apart basin is located in the eastern section of the North Anatolian Fault System (NAFS). The tectonic evolution of this basin is mostly controlled by strike slip master faults of the NAFS. This study examines the topography structure relationships in an effort to evaluate the tectonic signatures in the landscape, paying special attention to recent tectonic activity. In the study, the main focus is on the tectonic controls of the NAFS on the geomorphic evolution of alluvial fans and fan catchments in the Erzincan pull-apart basin. The observations of the amount of tilting of the alluvial fans (3) and its relation with morphometric (Asymmetry Factor (AF), Hypsometric Integral (HI), Fractal analysis of drainage networks (D)) properties of the fan catchments provide valuable information about the tectonic evolution of the basin area. The results of the analyses showed that the alluvial fan and fan catchment morphology in the pull-apart basin are mainly controlled by the ongoing tectonic activity of the NAFS. The fault system in the basin has controlled the accommodation space by causing differential subsidence of the basin, and aggradation processes by causing channel migration, channel incision and tilting the alluvial fans. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1367-9120	 	"Suleyman Demirel Univ, Dept Geol Engn, TR-32260 Isparta, Turkey.; Sarp, G (reprint author), Suleyman Demirel Univ, Dept Geol Engn, TR-32260 Isparta, Turkey.; gulcansarp@gmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.jseaes.2014.11.017	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Savage,Wesley K.;Fremier,Alexander K.;Shaffer,H. Bradley"	Landscape genetics of alpine Sierra Nevada salamanders reveal extreme population subdivision in space and time	Molecular ecology	Mol.Ecol.	2010	AUG	19	16	3301	3314	"Ambystoma;landscape genetics;least cost analyses;microsatellites;population structure;temporal resampling;LONG-TOED SALAMANDER;CALIFORNIA TIGER SALAMANDER;MULTILOCUS GENOTYPE;DATA;AMBYSTOMA-MACRODACTYLUM;LINKAGE DISEQUILIBRIUM;FRAGMENTED;LANDSCAPE;MICROSATELLITE DATA;SPOTTED SALAMANDER;F-STATISTICS;HABITAT USE;Biochemistry & Molecular Biology;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Evolutionary Biology ER"	Quantifying the influence of the landscape on the genetic structure of natural populations remains an important empirical challenge, particularly for poorly studied, ecologically cryptic species. We conducted an extensive microsatellite analysis to examine the population genetics of the southern long-toed salamander (Ambystoma macrodactylum sigillatum) in a naturally complex landscape. Using spatially explicit modelling, we investigated the influence of the Sierra Nevada topography on potential dispersal corridors between sampled populations. Our results indicate very high-genetic divergence among populations, high within-deme relatedness, and little evidence of recent migration or population admixture. We also discovered unexpectedly high between-year genetic differentiation (F(ST)) for breeding sites, suggesting that breeding groups vary over localized space and time. While environmental factors associated with high-elevation montane habitats apparently play an important role in shaping population differentiation, additional, species-specific biological processes must also be operating to account for observed deviations from temporal, among-year panmixia. Our study emphasizes the population-level insights that can be gained from high-density sampling in space and time, and the highly substructured population biology that may characterize amphibians in extreme montane habitats.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0962-1083	 	"[Savage, Wesley K.; Shaffer, H. Bradley] Univ Calif Davis, Dept Ecol & Evolut, Davis, CA 95616 USA. [Savage, Wesley K.; Shaffer, H. Bradley] Univ Calif Davis, Ctr Populat Biol, Davis, CA 95616 USA. [Fremier, Alexander K.] Univ Idaho, Coll Nat Resources, Moscow, ID 83844 USA.; Savage, WK (reprint author), Univ Calif Davis, Dept Ecol & Evolut, Davis, CA 95616 USA.; wksavage@gmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04718.x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Schank,C. M. M.;Paszkowski,C. A.;Tonn,W. M.;Scrimgeour,G. J."	Stocked trout do not significantly affect wood frog populations in boreal foothills lakes	Canadian Journal of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences	Can.J.Fish.Aquat.Sci.	2011	OCT	68	10	1790	1801	"YELLOW-LEGGED FROG;YOSEMITE-NATIONAL-PARK;INTRODUCED FISH;NONNATIVE;FISH;MOUNTAIN LAKES;NORTHERN SPAIN;SIERRA-NEVADA;RANA-MUSCOSA;AMPHIBIANS;CALIFORNIA;Fisheries;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	"Stocking salmonids into lakes can have negative consequences for some ecosystem components, including amphibians. In the boreal foothills of Alberta, Canada, we compared populations of wood frog (Lithobates sylvaticus) at lakes with (n = 5) and without (n = 6) stocked trout over 3 years; all 11 lakes also supported native populations of forage fishes. Abundance and size of adult and young-of-year (YOY) frogs did not differ significantly between stocked and unstocked lakes. We also compared the wood frog population from a twelfth, fishless lake with populations from the 11 fish-bearing lakes (with or without trout); abundance and size of adults and YOY were greater, and YOY emerged earlier in the absence of fish. Based on patterns compiled from a literature review of effects of stocked trout on anuran amphibians, we suggest that characteristics of our study systems, including the presence of native fish, the length of the anuran larval period, lake trophic status, and the existence of complex, littoral habitats, contributed to the lack of major impacts of stocked trout on wood frog populations."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0706-652X	 	"[Schank, C. M. M.; Paszkowski, C. A.; Tonn, W. M.; Scrimgeour, G. J.] Univ Alberta, Dept Biol Sci, Edmonton, AB T6G 2E9, Canada. [Scrimgeour, G. J.] Pk Canada Agcy, Western & No Serv Ctr, Calgary, AB T2P 3M3, Canada.; Paszkowski, CA (reprint author), Univ Alberta, Dept Biol Sci, Edmonton, AB T6G 2E9, Canada.; cindy.paszkowski@ualberta.ca"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1139/F2011-097	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Schoeb,Christian;Prieto,Ivan;Armas,Cristina;Pugnaire,Francisco I."	Consequences of facilitation: one plant's benefit is another plant's cost	Functional Ecology	Funct.Ecol.	2014	APR	28	2	500	508	"alpine;antagonistic interactions;bidirectional;competition;functional traits;physiological traits;reproduction;resource allocation pattern;NONNATIVE TARAXACUM-OFFICINALE;CENTRAL CHILE;CHLOROPHYLL FLUORESCENCE;POSITIVE INTERACTIONS;RHINANTHUS-SEROTINUS;ENVIRONMENTAL-STRESS;PATAGONIAN STEPPE;HIGH-ANDES;COMMUNITY;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	"1. Facilitation is known as the positive effect of one species (benefactor) on associated neighbouring species (beneficiaries). Although the beneficial part of this interaction has received considerable research interest, there is a gap of knowledge on the bidirectional nature of these interactions; in particular, the physiological and fitness consequences for both beneficiaries and benefactors. 2. Alpine cushion plants are generally strong benefactors, increasing species richness and abundance on a global scale, and provide a suitable system to study the physiological effects of bidirectional interactions and its consequences for reproduction. Current knowledge suggests that species improve their fitness when associated to a benefactor cushion species, whereas cushions may receive predominantly negative feedbacks. 3. We measured physiological and reproductive traits of the cushion species Arenaria tetraquetra ssp. amabilis and three other forbs (Eryngium glaciale, Lotus corniculatus ssp. glacialis and Plantago nivalis) in the dry Sierra Nevada Mountains, southern Spain. All four species were studied either when growing alone or when the three forbs were associated with the cushion plant. 4. The three forb species improved their water status when associated with the cushion, and Lotus and Plantago significantly increased their seed set. In contrast, Arenaria showed poorer water status and reduced flower density and seed set with increasing cover of beneficiary species. There was a clear relationship between physiological and reproductive traits in Arenaria growing without beneficiaries but not in Arenaria with beneficiaries. Control cushions (without beneficiary species) showed increased seed set and seed mass with increasing photosynthetic and water use efficiencies, respectively, the latter being positively related to leaf nitrogen content. In contrast, cushions with a large cover of beneficiary species did not show such relations. The missing relationship between physiological and reproductive traits for these facilitating cushions indicates that reproductive output in heavily colonized cushions may not be directly related to the plant physiological status and the availability of resources. 5. Our results revealed the antagonistic behaviour underlying the interaction between beneficiary species and facilitating cushion plants, similar to parasitic interactions. They also provide indications for changes in cushions' resource allocation pattern in response to colonization by beneficiaries."	"PT: J; SI: SI"	 		 	 	 	 				 	0269-8463	 	"[Schoeb, Christian; Prieto, Ivan; Armas, Cristina; Pugnaire, Francisco I.] CSIC, Estn Expt Zonas Aridas, EEZA CSIC, E-04120 La Canada De San Urbano, Almeria, Spain. [Schoeb, Christian] James Hutton Inst, Aberdeen AB15 8QH, Scotland. [Prieto, Ivan] CNRS, Ctr Ecol Fonct & Evol, F-34293 Montpellier 5, France. [Armas, Cristina] Inst Ecol & Biodiversidad, Santiago, Chile. [Armas, Cristina] Univ La Serena, Fac Ciencias, Dept Biol, La Serena, Chile.; Schob, C (reprint author), CSIC, Estn Expt Zonas Aridas, EEZA CSIC, Carretera Sacramento S-N, E-04120 La Canada De San Urbano, Almeria, Spain.; christian.schoeb@hutton.ac.uk"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Schroeder,Christoph;Bonet Garcia,Francisco Javier;Buck,Oliver;Corbane,Christina;Deshayes,Michel;Foerster,Michael;Garcia Millan,Virginia;Gil Jimenez,Yolanda;Lang,Stefan;Ramos Losada,Blanca;Simon Colina,Alejandro;Vanden Borre,Jeroen"	Validation of Habitat Assessment Services in Natura 2000 Sites: Streamlining the Role of Stakeholders from User Needs to Conservation Status Evaluation	Gi_forum 2013: Creating the Gisociety	 	2013	 	 	 	548	551	"Physical Geography;Geology ER"	A key success factor of the Copernicus programme is to ensure the acceptance of services by users. This acceptance and further adoption is based on high quality products that meet the specific information requirements of the user. In the realm of biodiversity monitoring and reporting on conservation status of Natura 2000 habitats, such products must meet different needs of local site manager and national environmental agencies, up to European authorities. Hence, the quality of these upcoming Earth observation based technologies must be validated in a pre-operational phase. The case of the MS. MONINA project shows the necessity to streamline the role of different stakeholders in the whole service delivery process. This process is described in depth, taken from the service validation in Sierra Nevada and Andalusia (Spain), showing potentials and limitations of the developed validation protocol and highlighting methodological, technical and scientific achievements obtained during this process.	PT: J	 	Jekel, T Car, A Strobl, J Griesebner,G.	 	 	 	 				 	978-3-87907-532-4	 	"[Schroeder, Christoph] Univ Malaga, E-29071 Malaga, Spain.; Schroeder, C (reprint author), Univ Malaga, E-29071 Malaga, Spain.; christoph.schroder@uma.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1553/giscience2013s548	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Serrano,Emmanuel;Enrique Granados,Jose;Sarasa,Mathieu;Jose Gonzalez,Francisco;Fandos,Paulino;Soriguer,Ramon C.;Perez,Jesus M."	The effects of winter severity and population density on body stores in the Iberian wild goat (Capra pyrenaica) in a highly seasonal mountain environment	European Journal of Wildlife Research	 	2011	FEB	57	1	45	55	"Body condition;Capra pyrenaica;Climatic conditions;Density-dependence;Mass-size residuals;Sexual dimorphism;WHITE-TAILED DEER;SPANISH IBEX;BIGHORN SHEEP;PHYSICAL CONDITION;SIERRA-NEVADA;SOUTHERN SPAIN;ANNUAL CYCLES;MASS CHANGES;SIKA-DEER;MULE DEER;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Zoology ER"	We studied the factors that determined kidney fat stores (KFs) and kidney stores (Ks)-defined as the residuals from the linear regression of kidney mass and kidney fat, respectively, on body weight-in 463 Iberian wild goats (Capra pyrenaica) from the Sierra Nevada (southern Spain). Despite the fact that body stores in both sexes were highest during the warmest months of the year and lowest during the coldest months when food resources are limited, the observed pattern was sex- and age-dependent. The KFs of male goats fell more than those of females in winter, and the yearlings of both sexes needed one season more than young or adults to restore their KFs. Goats of all age classes showed the same seasonal patterns in their Ks, although Ks were lower in females than in males throughout the yearly cycle. In addition, we found strong delayed effects of both snowfalls and population density on body stores, and in years with a lot of snow, goats' KFs reached their lowest levels in the current winter-spring, but the highest in the following summers and autumns. This pattern was less noticeable in the Ks. Population density negatively affected the body stores of wild goats, especially in winter, and the amount of snow fallen in the year of birth (cohort effect) did not seem to influence the body stores in our data set. In addition, we assessed the accuracy of the residuals from the regression between body size and body mass for monitoring body condition of live wild goats and concluded that, although it poorly indicates fat stores, it could be used as a general proxy of body condition. Finally, we discuss the expected effects of climate warming on body stores in this Mediterranean Caprinae species.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1612-4642	 	"[Serrano, Emmanuel] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Fac Vet, E-08193 Barcelona, Spain. [Enrique Granados, Jose] Espacio Nat Sierra Nevada, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Sarasa, Mathieu] INRA, Lab Comportement & Ecol Faune Sauvage, F-31326 Castanet Tolosan, France. [Jose Gonzalez, Francisco] Lab Prolab, E-23600 Jaen, Spain. [Fandos, Paulino] EGMASA, E-41092 Seville, Spain. [Soriguer, Ramon C.] CSIC, Estn Biol Donana, E-41092 Madrid, Spain. [Sarasa, Mathieu; Perez, Jesus M.] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Fac Ciencias Expt, E-23071 Jaen, Spain.; Serrano, E (reprint author), Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Fac Vet, E-08193 Barcelona, Spain.; emmanuel.serrano@uab.cat"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10344-010-0398-5	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Serrano,Emmanuel;Gonzalez,Francisco J.;Granados,Jose E.;Moco,Gisela;Fandos,Paulino;Soriguer,Ramon C.;Perez,Jesus M."	The use of Total Serum Proteins and Triglycerides for Monitoring Body Condition in the Iberian Wild Goat (Capra Pyrenaica)	Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine	 	2008	DEC	39	4	646	649	"Body condition;Capra pyrenaica;kidney fat index;kidney mass;physiologic status;serum parameters;WHITE-TAILED DEER;RED DEER;NUTRITIONAL INDEXES;BLOOD-CHEMISTRY;CERVUS-ELAPHUS;SPANISH IBEX;FAT RESERVES;POPULATION;UNDERNUTRITION;PARAMETERS;Veterinary Sciences ER"	Body condition in wild ungulates is traditionally evaluated during the necropsy of animals on the basis of the weight of fat stored around or within the vital organs, the weight of the organs themselves, and their derived indices. However, sometimes it is important to evaluate the nutritional status of the animal by means of blood and serum analyses and the interpretation of specific parameters. Only in a very few studies is the nutritional status of the animal obtained by blood biochemistry and, when obtained, compared with the values for body condition obtained by anatomic dissection. In this study, the usefulness of two serum parameters, total serum proteins (TSP) and serum triglycerides (ST), was assessed in the monitoring of the body condition of Iberian wild goats (Capra pyrenaica). In addition, their relationship with the kidney fat index (KFI) and its components, kidney mass without fat (KM) and kidney fat (KF) is evaluated. A total of 25 wild goats from the Sierra Nevada National Park (southern Iberian Peninsula) that were shot by hunters were used in this study. The parameter TSP was found to be correlated with KM. and ST was correlated with both KM and KFI. Hence. both TSP and ST can be used for monitoring physical condition in wild and captive Iberian wild goats.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1042-7260	 	"[Serrano, Emmanuel; Moco, Gisela; Perez, Jesus M.] Inst Natl Rech Agron, Lab Comportement & Ecol Faune Sauvage, Equipe Ecol Populat, F-31326 Castanet Tolosan, France. [Gonzalez, Francisco J.] Lab Prolab, E-23600 Jaen, Spain. [Granados, Jose E.] Espacio Nat Sierra Nevada, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Fandos, Paulino] EGMASA, E-41092 Seville, Spain. [Soriguer, Ramon C.] Estac Biol Donana, CSIC, E-41013 Seville, Spain. [Serrano, Emmanuel; Moco, Gisela; Perez, Jesus M.] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Fac Ciencias Expt, E-23071 Jaen, Spain.; Serrano, E (reprint author), Inst Natl Rech Agron, Lab Comportement & Ecol Faune Sauvage, Equipe Ecol Populat, F-31326 Castanet Tolosan, France.; emmanu@ozu.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1638/2007-0088.1	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Smith,Michael;Koren,Victor;Zhang,Ziya;Moreda,Fekadu;Cui,Zhengtao;Cosgrove,Brian;Mizukami,Naoki;Kitzmiller,David;Ding,Feng;Reed,Seann;Anderson,Eric;Schaake,John;Zhang,Yu;Andreassian,Vazken;Perrin,Charles;Coron,Laurent;Valery,Audrey;Khakbaz,Behnaz;Sorooshian,Soroosh;Behrangi,Ali;Imam,Bisher;Hsu,Kuo-Lin;Todini,Ezio;Coccia,Gabriele;Mazzetti,Cinzia;Andres,Enrique Ortiz;Frances,Felix;Orozco,Ismael;Hartman,Robert;Henkel,Arthur;Fickenscher,Peter;Staggs,Scott"	The distributed model intercomparison project - Phase 2: Experiment design and summary results of the western basin experiments	Journal of Hydrology	 	2013	Dec-12	507	 	300	329	"Hydrologic model;Rainfall-runoff;Distributed model;Lumped model;Calibration;Simulation;AMERICAN RIVER-BASIN;GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION-SYSTEM;NATIONAL-WEATHER-SERVICE;NORTHERN SIERRA-NEVADA;UNITED-STATES;HYDROLOGICAL MODELS;COMPLEX TERRAIN;STREAMFLOW SIMULATION;AUTOMATIC;OKLAHOMA EXPERIMENTS;Engineering;Geology;Water Resources ER"	The Office of Hydrologic Development (OHD) of the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) National Weather Service (NWS) conducted the two phases of the Distributed Model Intercomparison Project (DMIP) as cost-effective studies to guide the transition to spatially distributed hydrologic modeling for operational forecasting at NWS River Forecast Centers (RFCs). Phase 2 of the Distributed Model lntercomparison Project (DMIP 2) was formulated primarily as a mechanism to help guide the U.S. NWS as it expands its use of spatially distributed watershed models for operational river, flash flood, and water resources forecasting. The overall purpose of DMIP 2 was to test many distributed models forced by high quality operational data with a view towards meeting NWS operational forecasting needs. At the same time, DMIP 2 was formulated as an experiment that could be leveraged by the broader scientific community as a platform for the testing, evaluation, and improvement of distributed models. DMIP 2 contained experiments in two regions: in the DMIP 1 Oklahoma basins, and second, in two basins in the Sierra Nevada Mountains in the western USA. This paper presents the overview and results of the DMIP 2 experiments conducted for the two Sierra Nevada basins. Simulations from five independent groups from France, Italy, Spain and the USA were analyzed. Experiments included comparison of lumped and distributed model streamflow simulations generated with uncalibrated and calibrated parameters, and simulations of snow water equivalent (SWE) at interior locations. As in other phases of DMIP, the participant simulations were evaluated against observed hourly streamflow and SWE data and compared with simulations provided by the NWS operational lumped model. A wide range of statistical measures are used to evaluate model performance on a run-period and event basis. Differences between uncalibrated and calibrated model simulations are assessed. Results indicate that in the two study basins, no single model performed best,in all cases. In addition, no distributed model was able to consistently outperform the lumped Model benchmark. However, one or more distributed models were able to outperform the lumped model benchmark in many of the analyses. Several calibrated distributed models achieved higher correlation and lower bias than the calibrated lumped benchmark in the calibration, validation, and combined periods. Evaluating a number of specific precipitation-runoff events, one calibrated distributed model was able to perform at a level equal to or better than the calibrated lumped model benchmark in terms of event-averaged peak and runoff volume error. However, three distributed models were able to provide improved peak timing compared to the lumped benchmark. Taken together, calibrated distributed models provided specific improvements over the lumped benchmark in 24% of the model-basin pairs for peak flow, 12% of the model-basin pairs for event runoff volume, and 41% of the model-basin pairs for peak timing. Model calibration improved the performance statistics of nearly all models (lumped and distributed). Analysis of several precipitation/runoff events indicates that distributed models may more accurately model the dynamics of the rain/snow line (and resulting hydrologic conditions) compared to the lumped benchmark model. Analysis of SWE simulations shows that better results were achieved at higher elevation observation sites. Although the performance of distributed models was mixed compared to the lumped benchmark, all calibrated models performed well compared to results in the DMIP 2 Oklahoma basins in terms of run period correlation and %Bias, and event-averaged peak and runoff error. This finding is noteworthy considering that these Sierra Nevada basins have complications such as orographically-enhanced precipitation, snow accumulation and melt, rain on snow events, and highly variable topography. Looking at these findings and those from the previous DMIP experiments, it is clear that at this point in their evolution, distributed models have the potential to provide valuable information on specific flood events that could complement lumped model simulations. Published by Elsevier B.V.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0022-1694	 	"[Smith, Michael; Koren, Victor; Zhang, Ziya; Cui, Zhengtao; Cosgrove, Brian; Mizukami, Naoki; Kitzmiller, David; Ding, Feng; Reed, Seann; Anderson, Eric; Schaake, John; Zhang, Yu] Natl Weather Serv, Off Hydrol Dev, NOAA, Silver Spring, MD 20910 USA. [Moreda, Fekadu] Res Triangle Inst Int, Res Triangle Pk, NC USA. [Mizukami, Naoki] Natl Ctr Atmospher Res, Res Applicat Lab, Boulder, CO 80307 USA. [Ding, Feng] ADNET Syst Inc, Bethesda, MD 20817 USA. [Andreassian, Vazken; Perrin, Charles; Coron, Laurent; Valery, Audrey] Irstea Cemagref UR HBAN, F-92761 Antony, France. [Khakbaz, Behnaz] URS Corp, Ontario, CA 91764 USA. [Sorooshian, Soroosh; Hsu, Kuo-Lin] Univ Calif Irvine, Dept Civil & Environm Engn, Ctr Hydrometeorol & Remote Sensing, Irvine, CA 92697 USA. [Behrangi, Ali] CALTECH, Jet Prop Lab, Pasadena, CA 91109 USA. [Imam, Bisher] UNESCO, Div Water Sci, Int Hydrol Programme, F-75732 Paris 15, France. [Todini, Ezio; Coccia, Gabriele] Univ Bologna, Dept Earth & Geoevironm Sci, I-40126 Bologna, Italy. [Mazzetti, Cinzia] PROGEA Srl, I-40125 Bologna, Italy. [Andres, Enrique Ortiz] Idrol & Ambience Srl, I-80122 Naples, Italy. [Frances, Felix; Orozco, Ismael] Univ Politecn Valencia, Res Inst Water Engn & Environm, Valencia 46022, Spain. [Hartman, Robert; Henkel, Arthur; Fickenscher, Peter; Staggs, Scott] Univ Corp Atmospher Res, Visiting Scientist Programs, Boulder, CO 80307 USA.; Smith, M (reprint author), Natl Weather Serv, Off Hydrol Dev, NOAA, 1325 East West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910 USA.; michael.smith@noaa.gov"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.jhydrol.2013.08.040	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sousa,Joaquim J.;Ruiz,Antonio M.;Hooper,Andrew J.;Hanssen,Ramon F.;Perski,Zbigniew;Bastos,Luisa C.;Gil,Antonio J.;Galindo-Zaldivar,Jesus;Sanz de Galdeano,Carlos;Alfaro,Pedro;Selmira Garrido,Ma;Armenteros,Juan A.;Gimenez,Elena;Aviles,Manuel"	Multi-temporal InSAR for deformation monitoring of the Granada and Padul faults and the surrounding area (Betic Cordillera, southern Spain)	Centeris 2014 - Conference on Enterprise Information Systems / Projman 2014 - International Conference on Project Management / Hcist 2014 - International Conference on Health and Social Care Information Systems and Technologies	 	2014	 	16	 	886	896	"Granada fault;Padul fault;deformation;persistent scatterers;small baseline;InSAR;StaMPS;MAIN ACTIVE FAULTS;SIERRA-NEVADA;BASIN;SCATTERERS;BOUNDARY;MIOCENE;VALLEY;SCALE;Computer Science;Health Care Sciences & Services;Medical Informatics ER"	The quantification of low rate active tectonic structures is a major target of geodetic and geological studies to improve the knowledge of seismic hazards. The central Betic Cordillera (southern Spain) is affected by moderately active tectonic structures and seismicity. Part of this seismic activity is produced by several NW-SE normal faults located in the E of the Granada Basin. Here, we apply Multi-temporal InSAR (MTI) data to quantify the deformation produced by the Granada fault and the Padul fault zones and the surrounding area. The Granada NW-SE active normal fault zone, 17 km in length, crosses the city of Granada, a very sensitive area from a seismic hazard point of view due to the population of the Granada town. At the Padul fault, there is no geodetic evidence of contemporary motion. Considering the evidence of recent activity from geologic data, this fault may experience discontinuous motion with a different seismogenic character. Despite the InSAR uncertainties, InSAR results are consistent with the estimated geologic deformation rates lower than 1 mm/yr. Our results also confirm previous InSAR studies in the Otura area showing an estimated average annual velocity along the SAR line-of-sight of up to 10 mm/year anthropogenic subsidence. (C) 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.	PT: S	 	Varajao, J Cunha, M BjornAndersen, N Turner, R Wijesekera, D Martinho, R Rijo,R.	Procedia Technology	 	 	 				 	2212-0173	 	"[Sousa, Joaquim J.] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Sch Sci & Technol, Dept Engn, Vila Real, Portugal. [Sousa, Joaquim J.] Univ Porto, Ctr Geol, P-4100 Oporto, Portugal. [Ruiz, Antonio M.; Gil, Antonio J.; Selmira Garrido, Ma; Armenteros, Juan A.; Gimenez, Elena; Aviles, Manuel] Univ Jaen, Dept Ingn Cartog Geodes & Fotogrametria, Jaen, Spain. [Ruiz, Antonio M.; Gil, Antonio J.; Selmira Garrido, Ma] Univ Jaen, Ctr Estudios Avanzados Ciencias Tierra CEACTierra, Jaen, Spain. [Hooper, Andrew J.] Univ Leeds, Sch Earth & Environm, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England. [Hanssen, Ramon F.] Delft Univ Technol, Dept Geosci & Remote Sensing, Delft, Netherlands. [Perski, Zbigniew] Polish Geol Inst, Natl Res Inst, Carphatian Branch, Krakow, Poland. [Bastos, Luisa C.] Univ Porto, Fac Ciencia, Astron Observ, P-4100 Oporto, Portugal. [Bastos, Luisa C.] Univ Porto, Fac Sci, Dept Geosci Environm & Spatial Planning, P-4100 Oporto, Portugal. [Galindo-Zaldivar, Jesus] Univ Granada, Dept Geodinam, Granada, Spain. [Galindo-Zaldivar, Jesus; Sanz de Galdeano, Carlos] Univ Granada, CSIC, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra, Granada, Spain. [Alfaro, Pedro] Univ Alicante, Dept Ciencias Tierra & Medio Ambiente, E-03080 Alicante, Spain.; Sousa, JJ (reprint author), Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Sch Sci & Technol, Dept Engn, Vila Real, Portugal.; jjsousa@utad.pt"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.protcy.2014.10.040	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Souza,M. S.;Modenutti,B. E.;Carrillo,P.;Villar-Argaiz,M.;Medina-Sanchez,J. M.;Bullejos,F.;Balseiro,E. G."	Stoichiometric dietary constraints influence the response of copepods to ultraviolet radiation-induced oxidative stress	Limnology and Oceanography	Limnol.Oceanogr.	2010	MAY	55	3	1024	1032	"GLUTATHIONE S-TRANSFERASES;HIGH-MOUNTAIN LAKE;UV-RADIATION;N-LIMITATION;FOOD QUALITY;P-LIMITATION;GROWTH-RATE;ZOOPLANKTON;LIGHT;PIGMENTATION;Marine & Freshwater Biology;Oceanography ER"	"We carried out field experiments in two clear mountain lakes of both hemispheres (Lake Los Cantaros, Patagonia, Argentina, and Lake La Caldera, Sierra Nevada, Spain) performing a full factorial design (light 3 nutrients: unfiltered sun light (ultraviolet radiation treatment [UVR]) and screened sunlight (> 380 nm; photosynthetically active radiation treatment), with and without nutrient enrichment. We analyzed the direct effect of UVR on enzymatic antioxidant responses (catalase [CAT], glutathione S-transferase [GST], and glutathione reductase [GR]) of two calanoid copepod species-Boeckella gibbosa and Mixodiaptomus laciniatus-and the indirect effects of food quality (carbon : nutrient ratio) potentially affecting body elemental compositions and hence enzymatic activities. Responses for the three enzymes were different: GST increased its activity under UVR exposure in the two copepods, CAT activity was null and showed no response, and GR activity differed between species. Light treatments also affected sestonic elemental ratios; UVR exposure lowered carbon : phosphorus (C : P) ratios, which in turn affected the C: P elemental compositions of the copepods. However, nutrient addition had different effects on the two species; it did not affect final somatic C: P ratio of B. gibbosa but had a substantial effect on body elemental composition of M. laciniatus. Finally, the relationship between grazer's C: P ratio and GST antioxidant enzyme activity was negative. UVR and nutrient inputs affected food quality, grazer somatic stoichiometry, and subsequently enzymatic responses. The ability of calanoid copepods to overcome increased UVR may depend, at least for GST, on the elemental nutrient balance of the food."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0024-3590	 	"[Souza, M. S.; Modenutti, B. E.; Balseiro, E. G.] CONICET UNComahue, Lab Limnol, INIBIOMA, San Carlos De Bariloche, Rio Negro, Argentina. [Carrillo, P.; Villar-Argaiz, M.; Medina-Sanchez, J. M.; Bullejos, F.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Biol Anim & Ecol, Granada, Spain. [Carrillo, P.] Univ Granada, Inst Agua, Granada, Spain.; Balseiro, EG (reprint author), CONICET UNComahue, Lab Limnol, INIBIOMA, San Carlos De Bariloche, Rio Negro, Argentina.; balseiro@crub.uncoma.edu.ar"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.4319/lo.2010.55.3.1024	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sparling,Donald W.;Bickham,John;Cowman,Deborah;Fellers,Gary M.;Lacher,Thomas;Matson,Cole W.;McConnell,Laura"	In situ effects of pesticides on amphibians in the Sierra Nevada	Ecotoxicology	Ecotoxicology	2015	MAR	24	2	262	278	"Amphibians;Amphibian decline;Sierra Nevada;California;Pesticides;Organochlorines;Flame retardants;Pseudacris regilla;Contaminant residues;In situ experiment;FROG RANA-PIPIENS;RED-LEGGED FROG;POPULATION DECLINES;ACETYLCHOLINESTERASE ACTIVITY;MOUNTAIN-RANGE;CENTRAL VALLEY;HYLA-REGILLA;USA;TADPOLES;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Toxicology ER"	For more than 20 years, conservationists have agreed that amphibian populations around the world are declining. Results obtained through laboratory or mesocosm studies and measurement of contaminant concentrations in areas experiencing declines have supported a role of contaminants in these declines. The current study examines the effects of contaminant exposure to amphibians in situ in areas actually experiencing declines. Early larval Pseudacris regilla were translocated among Lassen Volcanic, Yosemite and Sequoia National Parks, California, USA and caged in wetlands in 2001 and 2002 until metamorphosis. Twenty contaminants were identified in tadpoles with an average of 1.3-5.9 (maximum = 10) contaminants per animal. Sequoia National Park, which had the greatest variety and concentrations of contaminants in 2001, also had tadpoles that experienced the greatest mortality, slowest developmental rates and lowest cholinesterase activities. Yosemite and Sequoia tadpoles and metamorphs had greater genotoxicity than those in Lassen during 2001, as determined by flow cytometry. In 2001 tadpoles at Yosemite had a significantly higher rate of malformations, characterized as hemimelia (shortened femurs), than those at the other two parks but no significant differences were observed in 2002. Fewer differences in contaminant types and concentrations existed among parks during 2002 compared to 2001. In 2002 Sequoia tadpoles had higher mortality and slower developmental rates but there was no difference among parks in cholinesterase activities. Although concentrations of most contaminants were below known lethal concentrations, simultaneous exposure to multiple chemicals and other stressors may have resulted in lethal and sublethal effects.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0963-9292	 	"[Sparling, Donald W.; Cowman, Deborah] US Geol Survey, Patuxent Wildlife Res Ctr, Laurel, MD USA. [Bickham, John] Battelle Mem Inst, Houston, TX 77079 USA.; Sparling, DW (reprint author), So Illinois Univ, Cooperat Wildlife Res Lab, Life Sci 2,MS 6504, Carbondale, IL 62901 USA.; dsparl@siu.edu; bickhamj@battelle.org; dcowman@brazosvalleymuseum.org"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10646-014-1375-7	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Teresa Vizoso,Maria;Bruno Navarro,Francisco;Lorite,Juan"	Thymus x pseudogranatensis (Labiatae), a new hybrid from Sierra Nevada (Spain)	Anales del Jardin Botanico de Madrid	An.Jard.Bot.Madrid	2011	JUL-DEC	68	2	161	166	"Labiatae;Thymus;hybrid;taxonomy;SE Spain;Plant Sciences ER"	Vizoso, M. T., Navarro, F. B. & Lorite, J. 2011. Thymus x pseudogranatensis (Labiatae), a new hybrid from Sierra Nevada (Spain). Anales Jard. Bot. Madrid 68(2): 161-166 (in Spanish). Thymus x pseudogranatensis Vizoso, F. B. Navarro & Lorite, a new spontaneous hybrid of Th. granatensis Boiss. subsp. granatensis and Th. zygis L. subsp. gracilis (Boiss.) R. Morales, collected in the dolomitic areas of Sierra Nevada (SE Spain), is described. Morphological characters of the new nothospecies are analysed and its distribution and ecology are discussed.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0211-1322	 	"[Teresa Vizoso, Maria] Univ Granada, Herbario, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Bruno Navarro, Francisco] IFAPA Ctr Camino Purchil, Area Recursos Nat, Grp Sistemas & Recursos Forestales, E-18080 Granada, Spain. [Lorite, Juan] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Bot, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Vizoso, MT (reprint author), Univ Granada, Herbario, Rector Lopez Argueta 8, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; mariate@ugr.es; fbruno.navarro@juntadeandalucia.es; jlorite@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3989/ajbm.2281	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Trepet,S. A.;Eskina,T. G.;Bibina,K. V."	Influence of environmental factors on number dynamics and spatial structure of the tur (Capra caucasica) population in the Caucasian Reserve	Biology Bulletin	 	2014	DEC	41	8	703	713	"Western Caucasian tur;Capra caucasica;number dynamics;population density;spatial structure;local micropopulations;environmental factors;limiting factors;snowy winter;wolf;wolf predation;poaching;Western Caucasus;Caucasian Reserve;SPANISH IBEX;ALPINE IBEX;SIERRA-NEVADA;BEHAVIOR;PARK;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics ER"	"The number and structure of the tur (Capra caucasica Guldenstaedt et Pallas 1783) population on the territory of Caucasian Reserve (Western Caucasus), as well as peculiarities of the effect of natural and anthropogenic factors on the population, were studied based on ideas of meta-population species dynamics. Fourteen local tur groupings were united into three groups by the similarity of long-term number dynamics. A negative effect of winter, which deviated from the average long-term winter by the level of snowiness, on the tur population was detected. Snowy winters damage not only males (that frequently die in avalanches), but also affect the birth rate subsequently; the portion of females, in spite of the male death, decreases anyway two years after winter, as well as the portion of underyearlings. It was demonstrated that the snowy winter effect is manifested only when the animal density is rather high. The following tendency was detected for the tur population: the greater the density before the winter, the larger the decrease in the animal density after it (and this tendency weakens one year after the winter). Wolf predation has no negative effect on the tur population in the reserve. A maximal association between the tur density and wolf density was found at a tur density up to 50 individuals/1000 hectares. With a further increase in the victim density, the wolf density changes independently of the tur density. Turs in the reserve are not easily accessible to poachers due to habitat peculiarities, and therefore, the role of poaching in the dynamics of their numbers is not significant."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1062-3590	 	"[Trepet, S. A.; Eskina, T. G.; Bibina, K. V.] Caucasian State Nat Biosphere Reserve, Maikop 385000, Russia.; Trepet, SA (reprint author), Caucasian State Nat Biosphere Reserve, Maikop 385000, Russia.; trepet71@mail.ru"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1134/S1062359014080081	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Trueba,J. J. Gonzalez;Moreno,R. Martin;de Pison,E. Martinez;Serrano,E."	'Little Ice Age' glaciation and current glaciers in the Iberian Peninsula	Holocene	Holocene	2008	JUN	18	4	551	568	"'Little Ice Age';glacial landforms;current glaciers;glacier variations;climate changes;high mountain;Iberian Peninsula;Pyrenees;late Holocene;EQUILIBRIUM-LINE ALTITUDES;PICOS-DE-EUROPA;NORTHWEST SPAIN;CORDILLERA-CANTABRICA;CENTRAL PYRENEES;LATE PLEISTOCENE;WESTERN;NORWAY;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	"'Little Ice Age' (LIA) glacier advance has been registered in three of the main Iberian high mountain areas: Pyrenees, Picos de Europa and Sierra Nevada. During the LIA, three different glacial environments have been differentiated in these three ranges. A high mountain glacial environment exists in the Pyrenees, where the altitude and northern latitude developed the most complex glacial environment between the oceanic influence on the western side and the Mediterranean influence on the eastern side. In the Pyrenees the LIA glaciation occurred in 15 massifs where there are up to 100 cirques; however, today the glaciers remain only in the highest peaks. A marginal glacial environment exists in the Picos de Europa related to the oceanic influence and topography in an Atlantic high mountain: there were six glaciers in the Picos de Europa Massif during the LIA. A marginal glacial environment also exists in the Sierra Nevada, related to the northern orientation and altitude in a Mediterranean high mountain, where only one glacier, the southernmost of Europe, occurred during the LIA. Several variations of LIA glaciers have been found: historical maximum (from the end of the seventeenth to the beginning of the eighteenth centuries); minor retreat with secondary regrowth (mid-eighteenth to nineteenth centuries); and continuous retreat (from the end of the nineteenth to the beginning of the twentieth centuries); followed by the almost complete extinction of the glaciers and an increase in the periglacial environment. There are now 29 glaciers in the Pyrenees, four buried icepatches in the Picos de Europa and one buried icepatch in the Sierra Nevada. The rise of ELAs from the last LIA glacial maximum until the present allows the calculation of an increase in temperatures of around 0.9 degrees C in the Iberian high mountains."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0959-6836	 	"[Trueba, J. J. Gonzalez] Univ Cantabria, Dept Geog, Torrelavega 39300, Cantabria, Spain. [Moreno, R. Martin] St Louis Univ, Dept Sci, Madrid 28003, Spain. [de Pison, E. Martinez] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Dept Geog, E-28049 Madrid, Spain. [Serrano, E.] Univ Valladolid, Dept Geog, E-47011 Valladolid, Spain.; Trueba, JJG (reprint author), Univ Cantabria, Dept Geog, Plz Valles 7A 3E, Torrelavega 39300, Cantabria, Spain.; jjgtrueba@hotmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1177/0959683608089209	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Ubide,Teresa;Gale,Carlos;Larrea,Patricia;Arranz,Enrique;Lago,Marceliano;Tierz,Pablo"	The Relevance of Crystal Transfer to Magma Mixing: a Case Study in Composite Dykes from the Central Pyrenees	Journal of Petrology	J.Petrol.	2014	AUG	55	8	1535	1559	"composite dyke;crystal transfer;geochemical modelling;magma mixing;principal component analysis;MAFIC MICROGRANULAR ENCLAVES;S-TYPE GRANITES;SILICIC MAGMAS;LAMPROPHYRE SILL;PLUTONIC COMPLEX;SIERRA-NEVADA;HYBRIDIZATION;ORIGIN;REPLENISHMENT;CONSTRAINTS;Geochemistry & Geophysics ER"	Two composite dykes containing abundant mafic enclaves within a felsic host crop out in the Maladeta Plutonic Complex, Pyrenees, Spain. Field, petrographic and geochemical criteria reveal mixing between gabbroic and aplitic magmas, giving rise to a variety of hybrid compositions. The rocks contain spongy plagioclase, quartz ocelli and amphibole-biotite clots that are interpreted as early crystals destabilized by reaction with the hybrid melts. Spongy plagioclase and quartz ocelli were mechanically transferred from the felsic to the mafic magma, whereas amphibole-biotite clots are former pyroxene crystals from the mafic magma. Multivariate statistics (principal component analysis) have been used to examine variations in the mineral trace element compositions, which are best explained by the crystal transfer process. This study shows that crystal transfer represents a mixing mechanism that can overcome some of the physical limitations of interaction between rheologically contrasting magmas and explain deviations of the hybrid compositions from the theoretical mixed chemical composition. In particular, hybrid whole-rock compositions show non-linear correlations in inter-element variation diagrams for elements that are enriched or depleted in preferentially transferred crystals. This effect has been quantified by extending magma mixing modelling to include crystal transfer. The composite dykes studied could be regarded as scale models of the behaviour of larger-scale magmatic systems, so this investigation has important implications for interpreting the petrogenesis of igneous suites by magma mixing.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0022-3530	 	"[Ubide, Teresa; Gale, Carlos; Larrea, Patricia; Arranz, Enrique; Lago, Marceliano; Tierz, Pablo] Univ Zaragoza, Dept Earth Sci, E-50009 Zaragoza, Spain. [Ubide, Teresa] Univ Dublin Trinity Coll, Dept Geol, Sch Nat Sci, Dublin 2, Ireland. [Larrea, Patricia] Miami Univ, Dept Geol & Environm Earth Sci, Oxford, OH 45056 USA. [Tierz, Pablo] INGV, Sez Bologna, I-40128 Bologna, Italy.; Ubide, T (reprint author), Univ Zaragoza, Dept Earth Sci, Pedro Cerbuna 12, E-50009 Zaragoza, Spain.; teresaubide@gmail.com"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1093/petrology/egu033	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Valbuena-Carabana,Maria;Gil,Luis"	Genetic resilience in a historically profited root sprouting oak (Quercus pyrenaica Willd.) at its southern boundary	Tree Genetics & Genomes	 	2013	OCT	9	5	1129	1142	"Clonality;Coppice forest;Dehesa;Forest management;Genet;Genetic diversity;Multilocus lineage;Multistem stool;Ramet;MULTILOCUS GENOTYPE DATA;COMPUTER-PROGRAM;POPULATION-STRUCTURE;SIERRA-NEVADA;DIVERSITY;SPAIN;CLIMATE;CLONES;LOCI;Forestry;Genetics & Heredity;Agriculture ER"	"Recent land use changes entailed the abandonment of traditional forest practices, which genetic and ecological sustainability should be evaluated in the frame of current socioeconomic and ecological changes. The present study aimed to assess the conservation value of Quercus pyrenaica Willd. in stands subjected to two traditional rural practices, one specific (coppicing) and the other generic (maintenance of open parklands), and their effects on genetic diversity and clonal structure in this singular root sprouting oak at the southern limit of its distribution. Genetic diversity measures of seven nuclear simple sequence repeat markers were compared, and Hardy-Weinberg disequilibria were tested to be originated from recent population demography. Results showed that, regardless of forest structure, the degree of clonality was very similar (similar to 60 %), being allele and lineage density proportional to stem density. Nevertheless, evenness of clonal distribution was higher in coppice, suggesting more homogeneous management than in open woodland. Contrary to previous beliefs, coppice stands do not involve genetic diversity losses; rather, the process of forest conversion into open woodland leads to the removal of numerous genetic lineages and low frequency alleles. The ancient presence of Q. pyrenaica in the region, which constituted quaternary glacial refuge, may contribute to its high genetic diversity. Historical vicissitudes in this anthropogenic deforested territory remark its resilient character; based on a specific fire pre-adaptive trait, continued coppicing fostered the preservation of its natural genetic diversity. This study evidences the importance of the integration of molecular and historical approximations to assess the genetic and conservation status of a secularly profited woody species."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1614-2942	 	"[Valbuena-Carabana, Maria; Gil, Luis] Tech Univ Madrid UPM, ETS Forestry Engn, Forest Genet & Ecophysiol Res Grp, Madrid 28040, Spain.; Valbuena-Carabana, M (reprint author), Tech Univ Madrid UPM, ETS Forestry Engn, Forest Genet & Ecophysiol Res Grp, Ciudad Univ S-N, Madrid 28040, Spain.; maria.valbuena@upm.es; luis.gil@upm.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s11295-013-0614-z	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Valero,Pablo;Ortiz,Antonio S."	Description and DNA barcoding of a new Iberian species of Pijnackeria (Scali, 2009) from Sierra Nevada, Spain (Phasmida: Diapheromeridae)	Zootaxa	 	2015	Dec-18	4058	4	535	550	"Phasmida;Diapheromeridae;New species;Insect morphology;Insect barcoding;Sierra Nevada Spain;STICK INSECT GENUS;NEW-ZEALAND;PHYLOGENETIC PLACEMENT;EVOLUTION;PARTHENOGENESIS;PHYLOGEOGRAPHY;PHASMATODEA;DIVERSITY;PRIMERS;Zoology ER"	"Male, female and egg of Pijnackeria recondita sp. n. are described from specimens collected at about 2,000 m in Sierra Nevada (Spain) feeding on Cytisus scoparius. The number of antennae segments in males, the smooth thorax in females and the different sculpturing of the egg capsule are the main differences from the other species of the genus. In addition, DNA barcode sequences (COI and COII) clearly differ from the other Iberian species of the genus. For COI, K2P minimum distance between the new species and the most morphological related species, Pijnackeria hispanica (Bolivar, 1878), showed a mean of 8%. In the case of COII, comparison with the other species of Pijnackeria, showed a K2P minimum distance range from 8 to 10.5% (mean 9.2%); and comparison with the species of the related genus Leptynia, showed a K2P minimum distance range from 7.1 to 10.5%."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1175-5326	 	"[Valero, Pablo; Ortiz, Antonio S.] Univ Murcia, Fac Vet Sci, Dept Zool & Phys Anthropol, E-30100 Murcia, Spain.; Valero, P (reprint author), Univ Murcia, Fac Vet Sci, Dept Zool & Phys Anthropol, E-30100 Murcia, Spain.; aortiz@um.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Vazquez,Mercedes;Jabaloy,Antonio;Barbero,Luis;Stuart,Finly M."	Deciphering tectonic- and erosion-driven exhumation of the Nevado-Filabride Complex (Betic Cordillera, Southern Spain) by low temperature thermochronology	Terra Nova	 	2011	AUG	23	4	257	263	"APATITE FISSION-TRACK;WESTERN SIERRA-NEVADA;SE SPAIN;CRUSTAL;ANATEXIS;DEFORMATION;CALIBRATION;DENUDATION;AGES;Geology ER"	New apatite (U-Th)/He and fission-track data from the Nevado-Filabride complex in the Sierra Nevada of southern Spain are used to constrain the Neogene exhumation history. Apatite (U-Th)/He ages are close to fission-track ages in western Sierra Nevada indicating that rapid cooling occurred at 8-6 Ma, consistent with exhumation due to extension along the Mecina Fault. The western Sierra de los Filabres cooled rapidly at c. 12 Ma, while the central Sierra de los Filabres experienced less rapid cooling at 8 Ma. The age distribution in the Sierra de los Filabres can be explained by exhumation due to flexural uplift to the south-west of the footwall of the Mecina Fault. The lower cooling rates in the central Sierra de los Filabres suggest that folding and erosion were the main exhumation processes during the Late Tortonian.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0954-4879	 	"[Vazquez, Mercedes; Jabaloy, Antonio] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Geodinam, Granada 18002, Spain. [Barbero, Luis] Univ Cadiz, Fac Ciencias Mar & Ambientales, Dept Ciencias Tierra, Puerto Real 11510, Cadiz, Spain. [Stuart, Finly M.] Scottish Univ Environm Res Ctr, Isotope Geosci Unit, E Kilbride G75 OQF, Lanark, Scotland.; Vazquez, M (reprint author), Fac Sci, Geodynam Dept, Fuentenueva S-N, Granada 18071, Spain.; mmvazquez@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/j.1365-3121.2011.01007.x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Vega,J.;Jimenez,E.;Vega,D.;Ortiz,L.;Perez,J. R."	Pinus pinaster Ait. tree mortality following wildfire in Spain	Forest Ecology and Management	For.Ecol.Manage.	2011	Jun-15	261	12	2232	2242	"Pinus pinaster;Tree mortality;Beetle attack;Wildfire;Logistic regression;MIXED-CONIFER FOREST;PREDICTING POSTFIRE MORTALITY;PONDEROSA PINE;PRESCRIBED FIRE;NORTHERN ARIZONA;BARK BEETLES;DOUGLAS-FIR;SIERRA-NEVADA;CROWN SCORCH;BLACK-HILLS;Forestry ER"	Maritime pine (Pious pinaster Ait.) is the tree species most affected by wildfire in the Iberian Peninsula. Prediction of the probability of fire-injured tree mortality is critical for management of burned areas, evaluation of the ecological and economic impact of wildfire and prescribed fire planning and application. Pine bark beetles (Scolytidae) frequently attack burned maritime pine stands and cause extensive post-fire mortality throughout the Iberian Peninsula. In the present study, maritime pine trees were monitored for three years following 14 wildfires in four ecotypes in Spain (11 fires in Galicia (Galician ecotype NW Spain), one fire in Portillo (Meseta-Castellana ecotype - Central Spain), one fire in Rodenal (Rodenal ecotype - Central Spain), and one fire in Genalguacil (Sierra Bermeja ecotype - SW Spain)). Data on tree attributes, crown and bole injury, ground fire severity, Ips sp. presence and tree survival were obtained by examining 3085 trees. Logistic regression models for predicting the probability of delayed maritime pine mortality were developed by use of generalized estimated equations (GEE). An ample range of response to fire damage in mortality was evident among the four ecotypes and different models were fitted for each. The most important variables for predicting tree mortality were total crown volume damaged, presence of Ips sp. attack and cambium kill rating. The results highlight the extensive presence of Ips sp. in burned maritime pine forests and its importance in tree mortality process, the ample range of response of P. pinaster, in terms of post-fire mortality, as well as the need to develop site specific mortality models for the different ecotypes of this species following fire. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	"PT: J; SI: SI"	 		 	 	 	 				 	0378-1127	 	"[Vega, J.; Jimenez, E.; Perez, J. R.] Ctr Invest Forestal Lourizan, Pontevedra 36080, Spain. [Vega, D.; Ortiz, L.] Univ Vigo, Dept Ingn Recursos Nat & Medio Ambiente, Pontevedra 36005, Spain.; Vega, J (reprint author), Ctr Invest Forestal Lourizan, POB 127, Pontevedra 36080, Spain.; jvega.cifal@siam-cma.org"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.foreco.2010.10.019	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Book, Whole	"Verbena,J. L.;Schroeder,K. -P;Jeyakumar,S.;Wachter,A."	Probing the Cool Outer Envelope of NGC 6826	 	 	2013	 	472	 	70	 	Astronomy & Astrophysics ER	We present observations carried out with the TRAM 30m telescope in Sierra Nevada, Spain, of the halo of NGC 6826, a young planetary nebula. We obtain information of the cool Asymptotic Giant Branch stellar mass by means of a comparison with a density profile from a 1.25 M-circle dot mass-loss history obtained from stellar evolution models paired with a mass loss prescription from dust-driven wind models.	PT: B	 	Chavez, M Bertone, E Vega, O DeLaLuz,V.	Astronomical Society of the Pacific Conference Series	 	 	 				 	978-1-58381-828-2	 	"[Verbena, J. L.; Schroeder, K. -P.; Jeyakumar, S.; Wachter, A.] Univ Guanajuato, Dept Astron, Guanajuato 36000, Gto, Mexico.; Verbena, JL (reprint author), Univ Guanajuato, Dept Astron, Apartado Postal 144, Guanajuato 36000, Gto, Mexico.; jluis@astro.ugto.mx; kps@astro.ugto.mx"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Verbisck-Bucker,G.;Gonzalez-Candela,M.;Galian,J.;Cubero-Pablo,M. J.;Martin-Atance,P.;Leon-Vizcaino,L."	Epidemiology of Mycoplasma agalactiae infection in free-ranging Spanish ibex (Capra pyrenaica) in Andalusia, southern Spain	Journal of wildlife diseases	J.Wildl.Dis.	2008	APR	44	2	369	380	"Capra pyrenaica;contagious agalactia;epidemiology;infectious diseases;Mycoplasma agalactiae;risk factors;Spanish ibex;SMALL RUMINANTS;MASTITIS;GOATS;CONJUNCTIVAE;RESISTANCE;OUTBREAKS;Veterinary Sciences ER"	"Mycoplasma agalactiae is the main causal agent of contagious agalactia syndrome in Spain. It is a severe disease of small ruminants, endemic in Mediterranean countries, that is characterized by mastitis, arthritis, and keratoconjunctivitis. This paper investigates the temporal, spatial, and host-related factors in the distribution of M. agalactiae infection from October 1996 to November 1998 and March 2002 to May 2003 in Spanish ibex (Capra pyrenaica) populations from Andalusia, in southern Spain. The predisposing factors to infection among previously selected factors (year of sampling, climatic season, geographic origin according to province, mountain range and metapopulation, sex, year of life, presence of scabies, and phase of the reproductive cycle) were established. We collected conjunctival and ear-canal swabs from 411 free-ranging ibexes. The frequency of infected ibexes was 11.2%. The peak frequency of infection occurred in 1998 and in summer. Granada was the province with greatest risk (odds ratio = 2.6) of carriers (18.8% infected). The predisposing factors were sex (females), age (young animals), and metapopulation (Sierra Nevada). We identified a higher number of infected ibexes in the metapopulation ""Sierra Nevada"" (34/256) and significant differences among the three established metapopulations (P<0.01). Mycoplama agalactiae infection represents a risk for population density and maintenance of these wild populations; infections can result in blindness, malnutrition, and polyarthritis leading to numerous deaths."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0090-3558	 	"[Verbisck-Bucker, G.; Gonzalez-Candela, M.; Cubero-Pablo, M. J.; Martin-Atance, P.; Leon-Vizcaino, L.] Univ Murcia, Fac Vet Med, Dept Anim Hlth, E-30100 Murcia, Spain. [Galian, J.] Univ Murcia, Fac Vet Med, Dept Zool & Phys Anthropol, E-30100 Murcia, Spain.; Gonzalez-Candela, M (reprint author), Univ Murcia, Fac Vet Med, Dept Anim Hlth, Campus Univ Espinardo, E-30100 Murcia, Spain.; monica@um.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Vicente Perez-Pena,Jose;Azor,Antonio;Miguel Azanon,Jose;Keller,Edward A."	Active tectonics in the Sierra Nevada (Betic Cordillera, SE Spain): Insights from geomorphic indexes and drainage pattern analysis	Geomorphology	Geomorphology	2010	Jun-15	119	01-Feb	74	87	"Tectonic geomorphology;Mountain fronts;Drainage pattern;Geomorphic indexes;Active folding and faulting;DEM;DIGITAL ELEVATION MODELS;SOUTHERN SPAIN;SURFACE UPLIFT;ALBORAN SEA;BASIN;EVOLUTION;AREAS;FAULT;CALIFORNIA;EXAMPLE;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	The Sierra Nevada of the central Betic Cordillera is a 3000 m-high mountain range surrounded by Neogene-Quaternary sedimentary basins, having been uplifted since Late Miocene times. The southern and western mountain fronts of the Sierra Nevada are fault-bounded, while the northern one is an unconformity between the Neogene-Quaternary sediments of the Guadix-Baza basin and the metamorphic rocks of the Nevado-Filabride complex. We have carried out a geomorphic study by examining drainage patterns and characteristics of mountain fronts in order to reveal areal variations and styles of rock uplift. Mountain front sinuosity (S(mf)), area-altitude relations (hypsometric curves), and valley floor entrenchment differ significantly between the northern, western, and southern mountain fronts. The lack of important faults along the northern Sierra Nevada mountain front, together with the elevated topographic position of the Guadix-Baza basin (average altitude is around 1100 m), points to similar uplift of both geomorphic units (sierra and basin) in a single large-scale crustal block. The asymmetry factors show systematic asymmetries at both sides of the Lanjaron River, probably due to the presence of an active NNE-SSW oriented antiform in the western Sierra Nevada. Finally, river profiles indicate maximal river entrenchment in the western part of the Sierra Nevada, probably related to the uplift of the footwall of the Padul-Niguelas fault-system. Therefore, our geomorphic analysis suggests that the western part of the Sierra Nevada is tectonically active by means of a combination of normal faults along the mountain front and NNE-SSW oriented active folds, which, in turn, likely have a gravitational origin related to the exhumation of the footwall of the normal fault-system. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0169-555X	 	"[Vicente Perez-Pena, Jose; Azor, Antonio; Miguel Azanon, Jose] Univ Granada, Dept Geodinam, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Miguel Azanon, Jose] Consejo Super Invest Cient UGR CSIC, Inst Andaluz Ciencias Tierra, Madrid, Spain. [Keller, Edward A.] Univ Calif Santa Barbara, Dept Geol Sci, Santa Barbara, CA 93106 USA.; Perez-Pena, JV (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Geodinam, Campus Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; vperez@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.geomorph.2010.02.020	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Viedma,Olga;Quesada,Juan;Torres,Ivan;De Santis,Angela;Moreno,Jose M."	Fire Severity in a Large Fire in a Pinus pinaster Forest is Highly Predictable from Burning Conditions, Stand Structure, and Topography	Ecosystems	Ecosystems	2015	MAR	18	2	237	250	"burn severity;decision trees;fire management;fire weather;landscape-structure;pine woodlands;RdNBR;WESTERN US;MEDITERRANEAN LANDSCAPE;LARGE WILDFIRE;SIERRA-NEVADA;CALIFORNIA;VEGETATION;INTENSITY;PATTERNS;BEHAVIOR;FUELS;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Identifying what factors control fire severity in large fires is critical for understanding fire impacts and planning pre- and post-fire management. Here, we determined the role of pre-fire stand structure, directional topography, and burning conditions on fire severity in a large fire (12,697 ha) in Central Spain that burned a Pinus pinaster forest on July 2005. Fire severity was estimated using RdNBR based on Landsat 5 TM images. Forest stand structure was reconstructed by systematically sampling the burned area (n = 236). Burning conditions were established using weather information and a map of fire progression, based on which fire rate of spread and propagation direction were calculated. Topographic features in the direction of the fire-front were derived from a digital elevation model. Boosted regression tree (BRT) analysis was employed to relate each group of variables or the entire set to RdNBR. Fire severity was best explained by burning conditions (cross-validation correlation [CVC] 0.56), followed by pre-fire stand structure (CVC 0.34), and directional topography (CVC 0.17). Combining the three sets of variables, CVC increased to 0.71. Higher fire severity occurred in areas burning upslope, with high fire rate of spread, with heterogeneous and dense stands of P. pinaster and Quercus pyrenaica in the understory, receiving high solar radiation, among other characteristics. Fire severity was the result of interactive relationships between burning conditions, pre-fire stand structure, and directional topography. Thus, determining factors controlling fire severity from static stand structure or topography, as is often done, may not be appropriate.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1432-9840	 	"[Viedma, Olga; Quesada, Juan; Torres, Ivan; Moreno, Jose M.] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Dept Ciencias Ambientales, Toledo 45071, Spain. [De Santis, Angela] Int Ctr Humanitarian Demining, CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland.; Viedma, O (reprint author), Univ Castilla La Mancha, Dept Ciencias Ambientales, Avda Carlos 3, Toledo 45071, Spain.; olga.viedma@uclm.es; josem.moreno@uclm.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10021-014-9824-y	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Villar-Argaiz,Manuel;Jose Bullejos,Francisco;Manuel Medina-Sanchez,Juan;Ramos-Rodriguez,Eloisa;Antonio Delgado-Molina,Jose;Carrillo,Presentacion"	Disentangling food quantity and quality effects in zooplankton response to P-enrichment and UV radiation	Limnology and Oceanography	Limnol.Oceanogr.	2012	JAN	57	1	235	250	"HIGH-MOUNTAIN LAKE;ESSENTIAL FATTY-ACID;ULTRAVIOLET-RADIATION;DAPHNIA-GALEATA;NUTRITIONAL QUALITY;SEASONAL SUCCESSION;MINERAL;LIMITATION;PRIMARY PRODUCERS;GRAZER DAPHNIA;BODY-SIZE;Marine & Freshwater Biology;Oceanography ER"	In a 32-yr record in oligotrophic Lake La Caldera (Sierra Nevada, Spain) biomass of zooplankton was strongly correlated with precipitation, aerosol deposition intensity, and ultraviolet radiation (UVR). The food associated-effects of these factors for zooplankton growth were tested in field-laboratory experiments with the aim of separating the effects of food quantity from those of food quality at low food conditions, where there is good evidence to support the existence of food quality effects. Manipulation of nutrients generated a large food quantity gradient that exerted the strongest effect on zooplankton growth, with no significant role of UVR. Growth curves were fitted to a saturation function that reached a plateau at increasing seston levels of ca. 250, 500, and 1000 mu g C L-1 for the rotifer Keratella cochlearis, the copepod Mixodiaptomus laciniatus, and the cladoceran Daphnia pulicaria, respectively, and after which growth decreased in M. laciniatus. Nutrients and to a lesser extent UVR also affected seston quality, which had a minor effect on zooplankton growth. K. cochlearis growth was strongly related to the P content of seston, whereas M. laciniatus and D. pulicaria growth were positively correlated with a P-normalized omega 3-polyunsaturated fatty acid index (omega 3-PUFA:P). The increase in seston associated with more intense and frequent atmospheric depositions would adversely affect copepods, but improve growth of C-limited cladocerans and P-limited rotifers in pristine ecosystems of the Mediterranean region.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0024-3590	 	"[Villar-Argaiz, Manuel; Jose Bullejos, Francisco; Manuel Medina-Sanchez, Juan; Ramos-Rodriguez, Eloisa; Carrillo, Presentacion] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Granada, Spain. [Antonio Delgado-Molina, Jose; Carrillo, Presentacion] Univ Granada, Inst Agua, Granada, Spain.; Villar-Argaiz, M (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Granada, Spain.; mvillar@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.4319/lo.2012.57.1.0235	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Villar-Argaiz,Manuel;Medina-Sanchez,Juan M.;Bullejos,Francisco J.;Delgado-Molina,Jose A.;Ruiz Perez,Olga;Navarro,Juan C.;Carrillo,Presentacion"	UV radiation and phosphorus interact to influence the biochemical composition of phytoplankton	Freshwater Biology	Freshwat.Biol.	2009	JUN	54	6	1233	1245	"essential fatty acids;food quality;phosphorus;seston;UV radiation;UNSATURATED FATTY-ACIDS;HIGH-MOUNTAIN LAKE;SOLAR;ULTRAVIOLET-RADIATION;MARINE-PHYTOPLANKTON;NUTRIENT;LIMITATION;PRIMARY PRODUCERS;DAPHNIA-GALEATA;GRAZER DAPHNIA;GROWTH-RATE;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	1. Numerous laboratory studies have shown that food quality is suboptimal for zooplankton growth. However, little is known about how food quality is affected by the interaction of potential global change factors in natural conditions. Using field enclosures in a high altitude Spanish lake, seston was exposed to increasing phosphorus (P) concentrations in the absence and presence of UV radiation (UVR) to test the hypothesis that interactions between these factors affected the biochemical and stoichiometric composition of seston in ways not easily predicted from studies of single factors. 2. Phosphorus enrichment increased the content of total fatty acids (TFA), omega 3-polyunsaturated fatty acids (omega 3-PUFA) and chlorophyll-a : carbon (Chl-a : C) and C : N ratios in seston. The pronounced increase in omega 3-PUFA was largely explained by the enhancement of 18:3n-3 (alpha-linolenic acid). In contrast, P-enrichment lowered the content of highly unsaturated fatty acids (HUFA), the HUFA : PUFA ratio and, at high P loads, seston C : P ratio. Although phytoplankton assemblages dominated by Chlorophytes were not rich in HUFA, seston in the control had substantially higher 20:4n-6 (arachidonic acid, ARA) content (79% of HUFA) than did P-enriched enclosures. 3. The UVR increased the content of omega 3-PUFA and TFA in seston at the two ends of the trophic gradient generated at ambient and high concentrations of P, but decreased seston C : P and HUFA at all points on this gradient. ARA was not detected in the presence of UVR. 4. The interaction between P and UVR was significant for seston HUFA and C : P ratios, indicating that the effect of UVR in reducing HUFA (decreased food quality) and C : P ratios (enhanced food quality) was most pronounced at the low nutrient concentrations characteristic of oligotrophic conditions and disappeared as P increased. Therefore, any future increase in UVR fluxes will probably affect most strongly the food quality of algae inhabiting oligotrophic pristine waters although, at least in the Mediterranean region, these effects could be offset by greater deposition of P from the atmosphere.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0046-5070	 	"[Villar-Argaiz, Manuel; Medina-Sanchez, Juan M.; Bullejos, Francisco J.; Delgado-Molina, Jose A.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain. [Ruiz Perez, Olga; Navarro, Juan C.] CSIC, Inst Acuicultura Torre Sal, Ribera De Cabanes, Castellon, Spain. [Carrillo, Presentacion] Univ Granada, Inst Agua, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Villar-Argaiz, M (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; mvillar@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/j.1365-2427.2009.02170.x	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Wachsmuth,Nadine B.;Kley,Marlen;Feriche,Belen;Calderon,Carmen;Iglesias,Xavier;Rodriguez,Ferran A.;Schmidt,Walter F."	Influencing Factors On The Erythropoietic Response During Altitude Training (Altitude Project)	Medicine and science in sports and exercise	Med.Sci.Sports Exerc.	2014	MAY	46	5	428	429	Sport Sciences ER	 	"PT: J; SU: 1"	 		 	 	 	 				 	0195-9131	 	"[Wachsmuth, Nadine B.; Kley, Marlen; Schmidt, Walter F.] Univ Bayreuth, Bayreuth, Germany. [Feriche, Belen] Univ Granada, Granada, Spain. [Calderon, Carmen] CAR, Granada, Spain. [Iglesias, Xavier; Rodriguez, Ferran A.] INEFC Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain."	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Walczak,Izabela W.;Baldini,James U. L.;Baldini,Lisa M.;McDermott,Frank;Marsden,Stuart;Standish,Christopher D.;Richards,David A.;Andreo,Bartolome;Slater,Jonathan"	Reconstructing high-resolution climate using CT scanning of unsectioned stalagmites: A case study identifying the mid-Holocene onset of the Mediterranean climate in southern Iberia	Quaternary Science Reviews	 	2015	Nov-01	127	 	117	128	"CT scanning;Holocene;Mediterranean;Speleothem;Palaeoclimatology;NASH;NORTH-ATLANTIC OSCILLATION;SIERRA-NEVADA;ATMOSPHERIC CIRCULATION;ENVIRONMENTAL-CHANGE;HOLOCENE VEGETATION;LAST DEGLACIATION;HALF-LIVES;SPAIN;VARIABILITY;RECORD;Physical Geography;Geology ER"	The forcing mechanisms responsible for the mid-Holocene onset of the Mediterranean-type climate in south-western Europe are currently unclear, but understanding these is critical for accurate climate projections under future greenhouse gas warming. Additionally, regional studies that present conflicting patterns for the onset and advancement of Mediterranean climatic conditions complicate definitively ascribing causality. Here, we use a new high resolution stalagmite density record obtained non-destructively using Computed Tomography (CT scanning) to reconstruct southern Iberian climate between 9.3 and 2.9 ka BP. We suggest that stalagmite density can be used as a water-excess proxy, with lower densities associated with more variable drip rates, possibly reflecting increased seasonality consistent with expectations from previous studies of speleothem textures and crystal fabrics. Our results reveal an early Holocene humid interval and mid-Holocene year-round aridity that preceded the onset of Mediterranean climate at 53 ka BP in southern Iberia. Using this new dataset combined with previously published results, we link the gradual advancement of the Mediterranean climate to the southward migration of the North Atlantic Subtropical High induced by an orbitally driven decrease in Northern Hemisphere insolation. Future anthropogenic warming could result in a reversal of this trend, a northward migration of the North Atlantic Subtropical High, and a return to year-round aridity in southwestern Europe. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	"PT: J; SI: SI"	 		 	 	 	 				 	0277-3791	 	"[Walczak, Izabela W.; Baldini, James U. L.; Baldini, Lisa M.] Univ Durham, Dept Earth Sci, Durham DH1 3LE, England. [McDermott, Frank] Univ Coll Dublin, UCD Sch Geol Sci, Dublin 4, Ireland. [McDermott, Frank] Univ Coll Dublin, UCD Earth Inst, Dublin 4, Ireland. [Marsden, Stuart; Slater, Jonathan] Univ Hosp North Durham, Dept Clin Radiol, Durham DH1 5TW, England. [Standish, Christopher D.; Richards, David A.] Univ Bristol, Sch Geog Sci, Bristol BS8 1SS, Avon, England. [Andreo, Bartolome] Univ Malaga, Fac Ciencias, Dept Geol, Malaga 29010, Spain.; Walczak, IW (reprint author), Univ Durham, Dept Earth Sci, Durham DH1 3LE, England.; i.w.walczak@durham.ac.uk"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.quascirev.2015.06.013	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Werner,Olaf;Rams,Susana;Kucera,Jan;Larrain,Juan;Afonina,Olga M.;Pisa,Sergio;Maria Ros,Rosa"	New data on the moss genus Hymenoloma (Bryophyta), with special reference to H. mulahaceni	Cryptogamie Bryologie	 	2013	JAN	34	1	13	30	"Musci;Haplolepidous mosses;Dicranidae;Hymenoloma;Dicranoweisia;Hynzenoloma mulahaceni;taxonomy;Asia;Europe;South America;North America;rps4 and trnL-F;PHYLOGENETIC-RELATIONSHIPS;CHLOROPLAST DNA;HAPLOLEPIDEOUS MOSSES;MAXIMUM-LIKELIHOOD;RPS4;SEQUENCES;RECONSTRUCTIONS;AMPLIFICATION;PARSIMONY;EVOLUTION;Plant Sciences ER"	A molecular and morphological study using two chloroplast molecular markers (rps4 and trnL-F) was carried out with specimens belonging to Hymenoloma mulahaceni, a species described at the end of the 19th century from the Sierra Nevada Mountains in southern Spain as a member of Oreoweisia. The comparison with Asian, European, and North American material of Dicranoweisia intermedia proved the conspecifity of both taxa, which was corroborated by molecular data. Therefore, the distribution area of H. mulahaceni is extended to U.S.A., Canada, Greenland, and several Asian countries (Armenia, Georgia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan). We also tested the monophyly of Hymenoloma sensu Ochyra et al. (2003), by including in the analysis the Holarctic taxa assigned to the genus together with Chilean material identified as H. antarcticum (putatively synonymous with the type of Hymenoloma) and H. crispulum. Phylogenetic analysis of basal haplolepidous taxa taking into account different genera, mainly of the Dicranales but also of Bryoxiphiales and Scouleriales, confirmed the monophyly of Hymenoloma and suggested a close relationship with the Scouleriaceae sensu Hedderson et aL (2004), while Dicranoweisia was resolved within Rhabdoweisiaceae. Molecular data helped us to show that Hymenoloma brevipes, morphologically closely related to H. crispulum, is a distinct taxon from H. antarcticum. This challenges the earlier records of H. crispulum from the Southern Hemisphere but a comprehensive revision is necessary to confirm its status in the region. A key to the genera Dicranoweisia and Hymenoloma and the European species of Hymenoloma is included.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1290-0796	 	"[Werner, Olaf; Pisa, Sergio; Maria Ros, Rosa] Univ Murcia, Dept Biol Vegetal Bot, E-30100 Murcia, Spain. [Rams, Susana] Univ Granada, Escuela Univ Magisterio La Inmaculada, Granada 18010, Spain. [Kucera, Jan] Univ S Bohemia, Fac Sci, CZ-37005 Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic. [Larrain, Juan] Univ Concepcion, Dept Bot, Concepcion, Chile. [Afonina, Olga M.] Russian Acad Sci, VL Komarov Bot Inst, St Petersburg 197376, Russia.; Ros, RM (reprint author), Univ Murcia, Dept Biol Vegetal Bot, Campus Espinardo, E-30100 Murcia, Spain.; rmros@um.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"White,Angela M.;Zipkin,Elise F.;Manley,Patricia N.;Schlesinger,Matthew D."	Simulating avian species and foraging group responses to fuel reduction treatments in coniferous forests	Forest Ecology and Management	For.Ecol.Manage.	2013	Sep-15	304	 	261	274	"Biodiversity;Forest management;Functional group;Hierarchical modeling;Imperfect detection;Occurrence modeling;LAKE TAHOE BASIN;BIRD COMMUNITIES;SIERRA-NEVADA;UNITED-STATES;TERRESTRIAL ECOSYSTEMS;RESTORATION TREATMENTS;ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS;HABITAT HETEROGENEITY;VEGETATION STRUCTURE;BIODIVERSITY LOSS;Forestry ER"	Over a century of fire suppression activities have altered the structure and composition of mixed conifer forests throughout the western United States. In the absence of fire, fuels have accumulated in these forests causing concerns over the potential for catastrophic wildfires. Fuel reduction treatments are being used on federal and state lands to reduce the threat of wildfire by mechanically removing biomass. Although these treatments result in a reduction in fire hazard, their impact on wildlife is less clear. We use a multi-species occupancy modeling approach to build habitat-suitability models for 46 upland forest birds found in the Lake Tahoe Basin in the Sierra Nevada based on forest structure and abiotic variables. Using a Bayesian hierarchical framework, we predict species-specific and community-level responses to changes in forest structure and make inferences about responses of important avian foraging guilds. Disparities within and among foraging group responses to canopy cover, tree size and shrub cover emphasized the complexities in managing forests to meet biodiversity goals. Based on our species-specific model results, we predicted changes in species richness and community similarity under forest prescriptions representing three management practices: no active management, a typical fuel reduction treatment that emphasizes spacing between trees, and a thinning prescription that creates structural heterogeneity. Simulated changes to structural components of the forest analogous to management practices to reduce fuel loads clearly affected foraging groups differentially despite variability in responses within guilds. Although species richness was predicted to decrease slightly under both simulated fuels reduction treatments, the prescription that incorporated structural heterogeneity retained marginally higher species richness. The composition of communities supported by different management alternatives was influenced by urbanization and management practice, emphasizing the importance of creating heterogeneity at the landscape scale. Published by Elsevier B.V.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0378-1127	 	"[White, Angela M.; Schlesinger, Matthew D.] US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Res Stn, Conservat Biodivers Grp, Davis, CA 95618 USA. [Zipkin, Elise F.] USGS Patuxent Wildlife Res Ctr, Laurel, MD 20708 USA. [Zipkin, Elise F.] Univ Maryland, Dept Biol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA. [Manley, Patricia N.] US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Res Stn, Conservat Biodivers Grp, Placerville, CA 95677 USA. [Schlesinger, Matthew D.] Univ Calif Davis, Dept Environm Sci & Policy, Davis, CA 95616 USA. [Schlesinger, Matthew D.] Univ Calif Davis, Grad Grp Ecol, Davis, CA 95616 USA. [Schlesinger, Matthew D.] New York Nat Heritage Program, Albany, NY 12233 USA.; White, AM (reprint author), US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Res Stn, Conservat Biodivers Grp, 1731 Res Pk Dr, Davis, CA 95618 USA.; angelawhite@fs.fed.us; ezipkin@usgs.gov; pmanley@fs.fed.us; schlesinger@nynhp.org"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.foreco.2013.04.039	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Woodward,Casandra;Johnson,Dale W.;Meadows,Matthew W.;Miller,Watkins W.;Hynes,Meagan M.;Robertson,Carrina M."	Nutrient Hot Spots in a Sierra Nevada Forest Soil: Temporal Characteristics and Relations to Microbial Communities	Soil Science	Soil Sci.	2013	NOV	178	11	585	595	"hot spots;Soils;Sierra Nevada Mountains;nutrients;microbial biomass;PREFERENTIAL FLOW PATHS;ION-EXCHANGE-RESIN;SPATIAL VARIABILITY;NITROGEN MINERALIZATION;DESERT ECOSYSTEMS;N MINERALIZATION;PATTERNS;HETEROGENEITY;SNOWMELT;COMPETITION;Agriculture ER"	"The importance of soil nutrient hot spots is becoming increasingly recognized in terms of both plant nutrition and water quality. Averaging soil nutrient values and eliminating outliers from data sets can obscure important information about the nature and frequency of such hot spots. In this study, soil nutrient hot spots were investigated by sampling forest soils using resin-based methods to capture the effects of leaching and preferential flow followed by destructive O horizon and soil sampling including both nutrient and microbial analyses. Six by six-meter grids (16 grid points at 2-m intervals) were instrumented with UniBest (R) resin capsules and Western Ag Innovations PRS (TM) probes in sets of four per grid point at two sites. After the first precipitation event in the fall, two capsules and two probes were removed (referred to as ""event samples""), and the remaining two were left in place for the entire winter season and then removed in the following summer (referred to as ""season samples""). We hypothesized that hot spots (as indicated by statistical outliers and significant positive skew) would be more prevalent in the event samples than in the season samples because of greater importance of preferential flow during the first event. Data for the resin capsules supported this hypothesis, whereas data for the PRS probes did not. Calcium and Mg2+ values for season samples were significantly greater than those for event samples for both capsules and probes at both sites, as was expected because of the greater exposure to leaching in the season samples. Differences in event and season values for orthophosphate, NO3-, NH4+, and K+ varied, however, with some showing season > event, some no significant difference, and some event > season, suggesting a greater role of biological uptake in spring and perhaps the effect of cation exchange on resins. After the removal of the season resin samples, cores of O horizons and surface mineral soils were taken at each grid point and analyzed for total C and N, water-extractable nutrients, and microbial biomass (the latter in the mineral soil only by phospholipid fatty acid analysis). Correlations with microbial biomass measured via phospholipid fatty acid analysis were inconsistent. In summary, we found no consistent pattern of hot spots with season of sampling or microbial biomass. The seasonality of resin-based measurements suggested that ions of N and P were released mostly during the first precipitation event, whereas the reverse was true for Ca and Mg."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0038-075X	 	"[Woodward, Casandra; Johnson, Dale W.; Miller, Watkins W.; Robertson, Carrina M.] Univ Nevada, Dept Nat Resources & Environm Sci, Reno, NV 89557 USA. [Meadows, Matthew W.] Univ Calif, Sierra Nevada Res Inst, Merced, CA USA. [Hynes, Meagan M.] Hlth Soil, Gonzales, CA USA.; Johnson, DW (reprint author), Univ Nevada, Dept Nat Resources & Environm Sci, 1664 N Virginia St,MS 186, Reno, NV 89557 USA.; dwj@cabnr.unr.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1097/SS.0000000000000023	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Xing,Fei;Kettner,Albert J.;Ashton,Andrew;Giosan,Liviu;Ibanez,Caries;Kaplan,Jed O."	Fluvial response to climate variations and anthropogenic perturbations for the Ebro River, Spain in the last 4000 years	Science of the Total Environment	Sci.Total Environ.	2014	Mar-01	473	 	20	31	"River discharge;Sediment flux;Dams;Human impacts;Land cover changes;LAKE-LEVEL FLUCTUATIONS;NE IBERIAN PENINSULA;SUSPENDED;MATTER;TRANSPORT MODEL;SIERRA-NEVADA;COASTAL OCEAN;LATE-HOLOCENE;LAND-USE;IMPACT;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	Fluvial sediment discharge can vary in response to climate changes and human activities, which in return influences human settlements and ecosystems through coastline progradation and retreat. To understand the mechanisms controlling the variations of fluvial water and sediment discharge for the Ebro drainage basin, Spain, we apply a hydrological model HydroTrend. Comparison of model results with a 47-year observational record (AD 19531999) suggests that the model adequately captures annual average water discharge (simulated 408 m(3) s(-1) versus observed 425 m3 s-1) and sediment load (simulated 03 Mt yr(-1) versus observed 0.28 +/- 0.04 Mt yr(-1)) for the Ebro basin. A long-term (4000-year) simulation, driven by paleoclimate and anthropogenic land cover change scenarios, indicates that water discharge is controlled by the changes in precipitation, which has a high annual variability but no long-term trend. Modeled suspended sediment load, however, has an increasing trend overtime, which is closely related to anthropogenic land cover variations with no significant correlation to climatic changes. The simulation suggests that 4000 years ago the annual sediment load to the ocean was 30.5 Mt yr(-1), which increased over time to 47.2 Mt yr(-1) (AD 1860-1960). In the second half of the 20th century, the emplacement of large dams resulted in a dramatic decrease in suspended sediment discharge, eventually reducing the flux to the ocean by more than 99% (mean value changes from 38.1 Mt yr(-1) to 03 Mt yr(-1)). (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0048-9697	 	"[Xing, Fei; Kettner, Albert J.] Univ Colorado, INSTAAR, CSDMS, Boulder, CO 80309 USA. [Ashton, Andrew; Giosan, Liviu] Woods Hole Oceanog Inst, Woods Hole, MA 02543 USA. [Ibanez, Caries] IRTA, Aquat Ecosyst Program, San Carlos de la Rapita 43540, Catalonia, Spain. [Kaplan, Jed O.] Univ Geneva, Inst Environm Sci, CH-1227 Carouge, Switzerland.; Xing, F (reprint author), Univ Colorado, INSTAAR, CSDMS, Boulder, CO 80309 USA.; Fei.Xing@colorado.edu"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2013.11.083	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Zamora,Regino;Antonio Hodar,Jose;Matias,Luis;Mendoza,Irene"	Positive adjacency effects mediated by seed disperser birds in pine plantations	Ecological Applications	Ecol.Appl.	2010	JUN	20	4	1053	1060	"adjacency;frugivorous birds;landscape mosaic;mobile links;passive restoration;pine plantations;seed dispersion;FOREST FRAGMENTS;PATCH WIDTH;MATRIX USE;LANDSCAPE;REGENERATION;BIODIVERSITY;RESILIENCE;ECOSYSTEMS;MANAGEMENT;FRUGIVORES;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	This study examines the consequences of adjacent elements for a given patch, through their effects on zoochorous dispersion by frugivorous birds. The case study consists of pine plantations (the focal patch) adjacent to other patches of native vegetation ( mixed patches of native forest and shrublands), and/or pine plantations. Our hypothesis is that input of native woody species propagules generated by frugivorous birds within plantations strongly depends on the nature of the surrounding vegetation. To test this hypothesis, we studied frugivorous-bird abundance, seed dispersion, and seedling establishment in nine pine plantation plots in contact with patches of native vegetation. To quantify adjacency arrangement effects, we used the percentage of common border between a patch and each of its adjacent elements. Frugivorous bird occurrence in pine plantations is influenced by the adjacent vegetation: the greater the contact with native vegetation patches, the more abundant were the frugivorous birds within pine plantations. Furthermore, frugivorous birds introduce into plantations the seeds of a large sample of native fleshy-fruited species. The results confirm the hypothesis that zoochorous seed rain is strongly determined by the kind of vegetation surrounding a given plantation. This finding underlines the importance of the composition of the mosaic surrounding plantations and the availability of mobile link species as key landscape features conditioning passive restoration processes.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1051-0761	 	"[Zamora, Regino; Antonio Hodar, Jose; Matias, Luis; Mendoza, Irene] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Grp Ecol Terrestre, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Zamora, R (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol, Grp Ecol Terrestre, Av Fuentenueva S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; rzamora@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1890/09-0055.1	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Zamora,Regino;Miguel Barea-Azcon,Jose"	Long-Term Changes in Mountain Passerine Bird Communities in the Sierra Nevada (Southern Spain): a 30-Year Case Study	Ardeola	 	2015	JUN	62	1	3	18	"climate change;elevational gradient;land-use changes;long-term changes;passerine birds;Sierra nevada;RECENT CLIMATE-CHANGE;HABITAT;DIVERSITY;SHIFT;HOMOGENIZATION;DISTRIBUTIONS;LANDSCAPE;GRADIENTS;POLEWARDS;RESPONSES;Zoology ER"	Shifts in composition and abundance of bird communities were studied along an elevational gradient in the Sierra Nevada (S. Spain), comparing censuses made at the same locations in the 1980s and during 2008-2012. Censuses were made in three representative ecosystems: 1) Pyrenean oak woodland, 2) high-mountain juniper scrubland, 3) high-mountain summits. In a global change context, avian-community dynamics are related mainly to changes in two of the following drivers: climate change and land-use change occurring over the past 30 years. Our results show a continuous turnover of the bird community, with an overall 27% change in species composition, in an ecological setting that has changed little, especially in the high-mountain scrubland and summit areas. We detected an increase in species diversity relative to the 1980s, mostly in the Pyrenean oak woodland. Moreover, our results also show a sharp decrease in bird density during the 30-year study period, chiefly affecting the dominant species of the 1980s in the Pyrenean oak forest and in the high-mountain scrubland. In the high-summit ecosystems, the decline of alpine species has paralleled the uphill expansion of some mediterranean ones. The outcome of these processes is a community in continuous flux, both in composition and abundance, where interannual variability is similar to interdecadal variability. We conclude that the bird communities of Sierra Nevada are showing strong spatial and temporal dynamics that are now accelerating, perhaps because of global warming.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0570-7358	 	"[Zamora, Regino] Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, E-18006 Granada, Spain. [Miguel Barea-Azcon, Jose] Consejeria Medio Ambiente & Ordenac Terr Junta An, Agencia Medio Ambiente & Agua, E-18013 Granada, Spain.; Zamora, R (reprint author), Univ Granada, Dept Ecol, Avda Mediterraneo S-N, E-18006 Granada, Spain.; rzamora@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Zamora-Camacho,F. J.;Reguera,S.;Moreno-Rueda,G."	Does tail autotomy affect thermoregulation in an accurately thermoregulating lizard? Lessons from a 2200-m elevational gradient	Journal of zoology	J.Zool.	2015	NOV	297	3	204	210	"elevation;field body temperature;Psammodromus algirus;selected body temperature;tail autotomy;thermoregulation;IBERIAN ROCK-LIZARD;COST-BENEFIT MODEL;PSAMMODROMUS-ALGIRUS;LACERTA-MONTICOLA;LOCOMOTOR PERFORMANCE;MEDITERRANEAN LIZARD;EXPERIMENTAL SUPPORT;UTA-STANSBURIANA;METABOLIC-RATE;REFUGE USE;Zoology ER"	Tail autotomy is an antipredatory defense that allows lizards to escape predator attacks by shedding their tails. While the benefits of preserving life are indisputable, tail loss implies a number of physiological, social, reproductive and even metabolic costs derived from tail regeneration and reduced motility. In addition, predation risk is increased in lizards with autotomized tails. Metabolic rates increase with body temperature, which in ectotherms depends on external heat sources. Ectotherm thermoregulation is costly in terms of time consumption and exposure to predators, this cost depending on habitat thermal quality. In this work, we seek to disentangle the effects of tail autotomy on field and selected body temperature of an accurately thermoregulating lizard Psammodromus algirus in different thermal environments along a 2200-m elevational gradient. We test two non-mutually exclusive hypotheses. According to a physiological hypothesis, we expect lizards with autotomized tails to show higher body temperatures that allow them to regenerate lost tissues faster, at least when the thermal environment is not limiting (at mid and low elevations). By contrast, according to an ethological hypothesis, we expect lizards with autotomized tails to avoid exposure to predators by reducing thermoregulation time, thus showing lower temperatures than lizards with non-autotomized tails. However, we found that the tail state did not significantly affect lizard field or selected body temperatures. On the one hand, a warmer thermal optimum could imply greater exposure to predators during basking, making motility-impaired lizards with autotomized tails more vulnerable, which could explain why the physiological hypothesis of autotomy thermal effect does not apply. On the other hand, lower body temperatures could be physiologically costly for lizards, which, together with the other costs resulting from tail autotomy, could jeopardize lizard fitness. Therefore, both hypotheses were not supported.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0952-8369	 	"[Zamora-Camacho, F. J.; Reguera, S.; Moreno-Rueda, G.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Zamora-Camacho, FJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; zamcam@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/jzo.12266	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Zamora-Camacho,F. J.;Reguera,S.;Moreno-Rueda,G."	Bergmann's Rule rules body size in an ectotherm: heat conservation in a lizard along a 2200-metre elevational gradient	Journal of Evolutionary Biology	J.Evol.Biol.	2014	DEC	27	12	2820	2828	"body size;cooling rate;elevation;heating rate;Psammodromus algirus;LIFE-HISTORY PUZZLE;NORTH-AMERICA;REFUGE USE;TEMPERATURE;PATTERNS;FOLLOW;CONVERSE;REPTILES;EUROPE;SCALE;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Evolutionary Biology;Genetics & Heredity ER"	Bergmann's Rule predicts larger body sizes in colder habitats, increasing organisms' ability to conserve heat. Originally formulated for endotherms, it is controversial whether Bergmann's Rule may be applicable to ectotherms, given that larger ectotherms show diminished capacity for heating up. We predict that Bergmann's Rule will be applicable to ectotherms when the benefits of a higher conservation of heat due to a larger body size overcompensate for decreased capacity to heating up. We test this hypothesis in the lizard Psammodromus algirus, which shows increased body size with elevation in Sierra Nevada (SE Spain). We measured heating and cooling rates of lizards from different elevations (from 300 to 2500m above sea level) under controlled conditions. We found no significant differences in the heating rate along an elevational gradient. However, the cooling rate diminished with elevation and body size: highland lizards, with larger masses, have a higher thermal inertia for cooling, which allows them to maintain heat for more time and keep a high body temperature despite the lower thermal availability. Consequently, the net gaining of heat increased with elevation and body size. This study highlights that the heat conservation mechanism for explaining Bergmann's Rule works and is applicable to ectotherms, depending on the thermal benefits and costs associated with larger body sizes.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1010-061X	 	"[Zamora-Camacho, F. J.; Reguera, S.; Moreno-Rueda, G.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Zamora-Camacho, FJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; zamcam@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1111/jeb.12546	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Zamora-Camacho,F. J.;Reguera,S.;Moreno-Rueda,G.;Pleguezuelos,J. M."	Patterns of seasonal activity in a Mediterranean lizard along a 2200 m altitudinal gradient	Journal of thermal biology	J.Therm.Biol.	2013	FEB	38	2	64	69	"Psammodromus algirus;Activity cycles;Circa-annual;Altitudinal gradient;Thermoregulation;LACERTID LIZARD;BODY-TEMPERATURE;MALPOLON-MONSPESSULANUS;MICROHABITAT;SELECTION;BEHAVIORAL MECHANISMS;GEOGRAPHIC-VARIATION;THERMAL;ENVIRONMENT;SCELOPORUS LIZARDS;PODARCIS-MURALIS;LIFE-HISTORIES;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Zoology ER"	Ectothermy in reptiles involves strong environmental temperature dependence to maintain body temperature. High mountains are extreme habitats which, because of their marked temperature decrease with altitude, impose difficulties for reptile thermoregulation, as the number of optimum-temperature days diminish in altitude. We studied the activity patterns of the lizard Psammodromus algirus, which has a wide altitudinal distribution, at six sampling stations that spanned an altitudinal range from 300 to 2500 m asl in Sierra Nevada (SE Iberian Peninsula). We performed censuses of the species during the seasonal and daily activity period, and measured lizard body temperature and environmental temperature in the six sampling plots along the altitude gradient. The body temperature of the lizards remained closely the same even though environmental temperature decreased around 9 C along that gradient. Seasonal activity peaked at the beginning of the activity period in highlands, but in the middle of the season in middle and lowland regions. However, newborns appeared in the field almost at the same time along the altitude gradient. We suggest that the thermoregulatory strategies of the lizards must vary along this altitudinal gradient, permitting lizards to keep their body temperature close to a very similar optimum and thus, develop very similar circa-annual activity patterns. (c) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0306-4565	 	"[Zamora-Camacho, F. J.; Reguera, S.; Moreno-Rueda, G.; Pleguezuelos, J. M.] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Zamora-Camacho, FJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; zamcam@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.jtherbio.2012.11.002	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Zamora-Camacho,Francisco J.;Reguera,Senda;Virtudes Rubino-Hispan,M.;Moreno-Rueda,Gregorio"	Effects of Limb Length, Body Mass, Gender, Gravidity, and Elevation on Escape Speed in the Lizard Psammodromus algirus	Evolutionary Biology	 	2014	DEC	41	4	509	517	"Limbs length;Body mass;Gender;Gravidity;Elevation;Lizard escape speed;LOCOMOTOR PERFORMANCE;PREDATION RISK;SPRINT SPEED;PHRYNOSOMATID;LIZARDS;MEDITERRANEAN LIZARD;THERMAL PREFERENCES;SEASONAL-VARIATION;NATURAL-SELECTION;SEXUAL-DIMORPHISM;HABITAT STRUCTURE;Evolutionary Biology ER"	Most animals rely on their escape speed to flee from predators. Here, we test several hypotheses on the evolution of escape speed in the lizard Psammodromus algirus. We test that: (1) Longer limbs should improve speed sprint. (2) Heavier lizards should be impaired regarding their sprint speed ability, suggesting a trade-off between fat storage and escape capability. (3) Males should achieve faster speeds due to their higher exposure to predators. (4) Gravid females, with increased body mass, should perform lower speed than non-gravid females. And (5) there are inter-population differences in sprint speed across an elevational gradient. We measured lizards sprint speed in a lineal raceway in the laboratory, filming races in standardized conditions and then calculating their maximal speed. We found that hind limb length greatly determined maximal sprint speed, lizards with longer limbs being faster. In parallel, higher body masses reduced maximal speed, which points to a trade-off between fat storage and escaping capability. Sexual differences also arose, as males were faster than females, as a consequence of males having longer limbs. Regarding females, gravidity did not impair maximal sprint speed, suggesting adaptations which compensate for the increased body mass. Finally, we found no elevational trend in both limbs length and sprint speed. In any case, this study suggests that selection on escape capacity may cast morphological evolution, and affect other life-history traits, such as fat storage and reproduction.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0071-3260	 	"[Zamora-Camacho, Francisco J.; Reguera, Senda; Virtudes Rubino-Hispan, M.; Moreno-Rueda, Gregorio] Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Zamora-Camacho, FJ (reprint author), Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Zool, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; zamcam@ugr.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s11692-014-9285-4	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Zeller-Lukashort,H. C.;Werno,A.;Kurz,M. A."	A new species of Micropterix Hubner, [1825] from southern Spain (Lepidoptera: Micropterigidae)	Shilap-Revista De Lepidopterologia	 	2013	DEC	41	164	489	494	"Lepidoptera;Micropterigidae;Micropterix;Micropterix stuebneri;Sierra Nevada;checklist;Spain;Entomology ER"	Micropterix stuebneri Zeller, Werno & Kurz, sp. n. is described from the Sierra Nevada (Spain) and compared with its likely closest relative Micropterix isobasella Staudinger 1871. The new species is well characterized by its wing pattern and by the structure of the male genitalia. This is the eighth species of Micropterix Hubner, [1825] known for the Spanish fauna (mainland) with certainty. A Spanish checklist is presented.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0300-5267	 	"Zeller-Lukashort, HC (reprint author), Forsthubfeld 14, A-5303 Thalgau, Austria.; christof.zeller@gmx.net; awerno@aol.com; michael.kurz@gmx.at"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Zielinski,William J.;Thompson,Craig M.;Purcell,Kathryn L.;Garner,James D."	An assessment of fisher (Pekania pennanti) tolerance to forest management intensity on the landscape	Forest Ecology and Management	For.Ecol.Manage.	2013	Dec-15	310	 	821	826	"Fisher;Pekania pennanti;Fuel management;Forestry;Fire;California;MIXED-CONIFER FORESTS;SIERRA-NEVADA;HABITAT SELECTION;FIRE SEVERITY;USA;WILDFIRES;SIMULATION;MOUNTAINS;CARNIVORE;Forestry ER"	Forest restoration intended to reduce the overabundance of dense vegetation can be at odds with wildlife habitat conservation, particularly for species of wildlife that are strongly associated with structurally diverse forests with dense canopies. The fisher (Pekania pennanti), a mesopredator that occurs in mid-elevation forests of the southern Sierra Nevada, is such a species and managers are challenged to address fuel accumulations while at the same time maintaining sufficient habitat. We were interested in whether fishers tolerate the amount of management-related disturbance that fire ecologists predict will be sufficient to reduce the severity and spread rate of fires. To address this question we related an index of relative fisher abundance to data on the amount of each sample area that has been affected by one or more forms of disturbance. These are forms of forest management associated with either restoration activities (e.g., thinning, prescribed fire) or timber harvest (e.g., clear cutting, selection harvest). We used scat detection dogs to determine the relative abundance of scats in each of 15, 14 km(2) hexagonal sample areas that were sampled twice a year for 4 years. These data were used to classify each sample area as either low, moderate or high relative abundance of fishers. We also summarized for each of the sample areas the total number of hectares (including overlap) affected by management activities each year, and generated a 3-year running average. The areas exhibiting the highest use by fishers had an average of 36.7 hectares per year affected by ground-disturbing activities. Given that each sample area was 1400 hectares, this suggests that fishers consistently occupy at the highest rate of use places where an average of 2.6% of the area has been disturbed per year. This translates to an average of 7.4 ha of disturbance/year/km(2) (47.1 acres of disturbance/year/mi(2)). This is more disturbance than was predicted to be necessary to treat forests to reduce fire spread rate and severity in the southern Sierra Nevada, but less than predicted to be necessary by fire models for other geographic locations. Our work suggests that it may be possible to implement restorative treatments at an extent and rate that achieves fire modeling goals and does not affect occupancy by fishers. Implementation of such an approach, however, should also consider protection of large trees (conifers and hardwoods) used as resting and denning sites and account for the maintenance of habitat connectivity. Published by Elsevier B.V.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0378-1127	 	"[Zielinski, William J.] US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Res Stn, Arcata, CA 95521 USA. [Thompson, Craig M.; Purcell, Kathryn L.; Garner, James D.] US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Res Stn, Fresno, CA 93710 USA.; Zielinski, WJ (reprint author), US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific Southwest Res Stn, 1700 Bayview Dr, Arcata, CA 95521 USA.; bzielinski@fs.fed.us"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.foreco.2013.09.028	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Zuazo,V. H. Duran;Pleguezuelo,C. R. Rodriguez;Martinez,J. R. Francia;Rodiguez,B. Carceles;Raya,A. Martinez;Galindo,P. Perez"	Harvest intensity of aromatic shrubs vs. soil erosion: An equilibrium for sustainable agriculture (SE Spain)	Catena	Catena	2008	Mar-15	73	1	107	116	"erosion;essential oils;Lanjaron;runoff;wild-aromatic plants;SEMIARID ENVIRONMENT;VEGETATION;CLIMATE;MEXICO;COVER;Geology;Agriculture;Water Resources ER"	In the Mediterranean Europe, where rainfall is scarce and irregular but often of high intensity, wild shrubs protect the soil against erosivity of raindrops. Moreover, some of these plants are the economic income for local farmers. Particularly in SE Spain, soil erosion is a core factor in environmental degradation attributed primarily to the cultivation practices and human pressure on the land. Over a four-year period, soil erosion and runoff were monitored in erosion plots on a mountainside, comparing four harvest intensities of four aromatic shrubs (Lavandula lanata L., Santolina rosmarinifolia L. Origanum bastetanum, and Salvia lavandulifolia V.): 0% (HI-0), 25% (HI-25), 50% (HI-50), and 75% (HI-75). Also, the fresh biomass and essential-oil content were quantified in each treatment. The erosion plots were located in Lanjaron (Granada, SE Spain) on the southern flank of the Sierra Nevada Mountains, on a 20% slope, and of 96 in 2 in area. The average soil loss for HI-0, HI-25, HI-50, and HI-75 during the study period was 144.6, 187.2, 256.0, and 356.0 kg ha(-1) respectively, and runoff 2.6, 3.2, 3.4, and 4,7 mm, respectively. The lowest average soil erosion and runoff rates for the study period were recorded with plant cover of S. lavandulifolia V. 67.6 kg ha(-1) and 1.3 mm, respectively. Since no significant differences were found between HI-25 and HI-50 for soil erosion and runoff, and harvest and distillation of wild-aromatic plants currently persists as an important economic activity in mountainous areas of the study zone, we recommend a rational harvest (HI-50), leaving the 50% of the plant biomass in the field (especially for sage and lavender) to avoid the soil degradation. In this sense, the harvest of 50% of fresh herb of sage, santolina, lavender, and oregano produced reasonable essential-oil yield of 12.7, 14.0, 19.7, and 18.3 L ha(-1), respectively. The inappropriate harvest of aromatic plants and the intensity fanning systems of mountain areas endanger land conservation, and there is an Urgent need to implement appropriate land management which has a large-scale perspective but acts at the local level. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0341-8162	 	"[Zuazo, V. H. Duran; Pleguezuelo, C. R. Rodriguez; Martinez, J. R. Francia; Rodiguez, B. Carceles; Raya, A. Martinez] IFAPA Ctr Camino Purchi, Granada 18080, Spain. [Galindo, P. Perez] Sensient Fragantes SA, Granada 18100, Spain.; Zuazo, VHD (reprint author), IFAPA Ctr Camino Purchi, Apdo 2027, Granada 18080, Spain.; victorh.duran.ext@juiitadeandalucia.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1016/j.catena.2007.09.006	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Zuazo,Victor Hugo Duran;Pleguezuelo,Carmen Rocio Rodriguez;Martinez,Jose Ramon Francia;Raya,Armando Martinez;Panadero,Lorenzo Arroyo;Rodriguez,Belen Carceles;Moll,Maria Concepcion Navarro"	Benefits of plant strips for sustainable mountain agriculture	Agronomy for Sustainable Development	 	2008	OCT-DEC	28	4	497	505	"almond orchards;aromatic-shrub-cover strips;biomass production;hillslope erosion;mountainous agriculture;soil-management systems;SOIL-EROSION;PHYSICAL-PROPERTIES;RAINFALL EROSIVITY;SOUTHEAST SPAIN;WATER-BALANCE;SE SPAIN;QUALITY;RUNOFF;ENVIRONMENT;IRRIGATION;Agriculture ER"	"Erosion degrades soil quality in agricultural ecosystems, thereby reducing the productivity of the land. Semi-natural vegetation and diverse cropping systems have been converted into monocultures with low tree densities, leaving the soil unprotected. We evaluated the association in soil-and water-conservation systems with production in traditional almond orchards and the beneficial impact of plant strips in mountainous agriculture. Soil loss, runoff and nutrient loss over a four-year period (2002-2005) were monitored in hillside erosion plots with almond trees under different soil-management systems: (1) non-tillage with sage (Salvia lavandulifolia L. subspecies Oxyodon) strips 3 m wide; (2) non-tillage with rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis L.) strips, (3) non-tillage with thyme (Thymus baeticus L. Boiss. exlacaita) strips, and (4) conventional tillage on the south flank of the Sierra Nevada (Lanjaron) in south-eastern Spain. Also, the nut yield from almond trees, and the biomass from aromatic-shrub strips were measured. The erosion plots, located on a 35% slope, were 144 m(2) in area. The plant-cover strips, 3 m wide, ran across the slope. Our results show that the most effective treatment proved to be non-tillage with thyme strips, reducing the annual soil loss by 93% and runoff by 80%, with respect to conventional tillage. Non-tillage with rosemary strips reduced soil loss by 91% and runo. by 82%, with respect to conventional tillage, while these percentages were 69% and 51%, respectively, for non-tillage with sage strips. In addition, all the treatments as a whole, in comparison with conventional tillage, revealed that the plant strips were the decisive factor in the reduction of NPK losses by surface runoff. The average nut yield from non-tillage with sage strips, non-tillage with rosemary strips, non-tillage with thyme strips and conventional tillage during the study period was 2.4, 3.2, 3.8 and 4.5 kg tree(-1), respectively, and the essential oil yield from sage, rosemary and thyme strips was 5.0, 8.7 and 10.8 L ha(-1), respectively. The non-tillage with thyme strips decreased nutrient loading in surface waters and thus had a positive impact on the environment while simultaneously maintaining reasonable almond-production levels. Thus, the combination of orchard trees with shrubs provided a viable option to conserve soil and water in hilly areas with opportunities to increase overall land productivity as well as sustainable agro-environmental measures."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1774-0746	 	"[Zuazo, Victor Hugo Duran; Pleguezuelo, Carmen Rocio Rodriguez; Martinez, Jose Ramon Francia; Raya, Armando Martinez; Panadero, Lorenzo Arroyo; Rodriguez, Belen Carceles] IFAPA Ctr Camino Purchil, Granada 18080, Spain. [Moll, Maria Concepcion Navarro] Univ Granada, Dept Farmacol, Fac Farm, E-18071 Granada, Spain.; Zuazo, VHD (reprint author), IFAPA Ctr Camino Purchil, Apdo 2027, Granada 18080, Spain.; victorh.duran.ext@juntadeandalucia.es"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1051/agro:2008020	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 