Reference Type	Authors, Primary	Title Primary	Periodical Full	Periodical Abbrev	Pub Year	Pub Date Free From	Volume	Issue	Start Page	Other Pages	Keywords	Abstract	Notes	Personal Notes	Authors, Secondary	Title Secondary	Edition	Publisher	Place Of Publication	Authors, Tertiary	Authors, Quaternary	Authors, Quinary	Title, Tertiary	ISSN/ISBN	Availability	Author/Address	Accession Number	Language	Classification	Sub file/Database	Original Foreign Title	Links	URL	DOI	PMID	PMCID	Call Number	Database	Data Source	Identifying Phrase	Retrieved Date	Shortened Title	User 1	User 2	User 3	User 4	User 5	User 6	User 7	User 8	User 9	User 10	User 11	User 12	User 13	User 14	User 15Journal Article	"Arillo,A.;Subias,L. S."	Redescription of the longest-legged oribatid mite, Metabelbella phalangioides (Michael, 1890) com. nov., a species from Algeria and Southern Spain (Acariformes: Oribatida: Damaeidae)	Systematic and Applied Acarology	 	2006	Mar-06	11	1	57	62	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	In this paper the oribatid mite Damaeus phalangioides Michael, 1890 is transferred to the genus Metabelbella and is redescribed. It was first described (based on only one specimen) from the North of Africa (Algeria) and, until now, it was only recorded once again (only one specimen also), from Southeast Spain, in Sierra Nevada. This second record was not included in the revision of the series Fauna Iberica by Perez-Inigo (1997). Neither specimen was recorded in a cave, but now a third specimen has been found in a cave in southern Spain and the presence of this species in Spain is confirmed. Metabelbella phalangioides corn. nov. could be a truly troglobic species because the specimen is rather pale coloured despite having a great body size. We assigned the new specimen to this species due (among other features) to the great development of its legs, the longest known among oribatid mites, although species with legs longer than the body are not uncommon in the family Damaeidae. The following new combinations are also proposed: Metabelbella gratiosa (Willmann, 194 1) corn. nov. and Metabelbella clavigera (Willmann, 1954) com. nov.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1362-1971 ER	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Assing,Volker	Four new species and additional records of Palaearctic Sunius, with two new synonymies (Coleoptera: Staphylinidae: Paederinae)	Beitraege zur Entomologie	Beitr.Entomol.	2008	 	58	2	455	470	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	Four species of Sunius STEPHENS are described and illustrated: S. tronqueti sp. n. (Spain: Sierra Nevada), S. filabresicus sp. n. (Spain: Sierra de los Filabres), S. gadoricus sp. n. (Spain: Sierra de Gador), and S. kastcheevi sp. n. (Kazakhstan). Two synonymies are proposed: S. melanocephalus (FABRICIUS, 1793) = S. anatolicus ASSING, 1995, syn. n., S. claviceps (REITTER, 1908) = Sunius bogdoensis GREBENNIKOV, 2001, syn. n. Additional records of 24 (sub-)species are reported from the Palaearctic region.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0005-805X ER	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Beck,H.	Two new Noctuidae from Spain, one of these - Mythimna (Foehstia) valeriae Beck, sp n. - is new to Science. Eremodrina gilva (Donzel, 1837) is definitely recorded from Spain (Lepidoptera : Noctuidae)	SHILAP Revista de Lepidopterologia	 	2007	 	35	140	507	512	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	Two species (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) are recorded from Spain. One of them is new to Science: Mythimna (Foehstia) valeriae Beck, sp. n. The other species, Eremodrina gilva (Donzel, 1837), had been found in a light-trap in the Sierra Nevada, Granada, Ruta de Veleta, 1600 in, about 2000 kin away from its known westernmost point of distribution in the French Alps. Thus now a doubtful finding of this species at Granada can be confirmed.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0300-5267 ER	 	 	 	 	 	 	Dos nuevos Noctuidae de Espana, uno de estos - Mythimna (Foehstia) valeriae Beck, sp. n. - es nuevo para la Ciencia. Eremodrina gilva (Donzel, 1837) es definitivamente citada de Espana. (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Calle,J. A.;Ortiz,A. S.;Rubio,R. M.;Garre,M.;Ochotorena,F."	The Noctuidae (Lepidoptera) of Sierra Espuna Regional Park (southern Iberian Peninsula)	Boletin de la S.E.A.	 	2007	APR 30 2007	 	40	255	266	"Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Biodiversity & Conservation"	A list of 213 species of Noctuidae from Sierra Espuna Regional Park (Murcia, southern Iberian Peninsula) is presented. Wide Mediterranean distribution elements represent a higher proportion than those with a wider range, while Iberian endemics are few. Worthy of note among the species found were the endemic species Phytometra sanctiflorentis (Boisduval, 1834), Cucullia achilleae Guenee, 1852, Harpagophana hilaris (Staudinger, 1895), Pseudohadena mariana Lajonquiere, 1964 and Hadena (Anemia) nevadae (Draut, 1933). Also, the new data on Eublemma himmighoffenii (Milliere, 1867) extend its known Iberian distribution area.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1134-6094 ER	 	 	 	 	 	 	Los noctuidae (Lepidoptera) del Parque Regional de Sierra Espuna (Murcia)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Cleve,Casey;Perrine,John;Holzman,Barbara;Hines,Ellen"	Addressing biased occurrence data in predicting potential Sierra Nevada red fox habitat for survey prioritization	Endangered Species Research	 	2011	 	14	3	179	191	"Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Mathematical & Computational Biology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Biodiversity & Conservation"	The Sierra Nevada red fox Vulpes vulpes necator is listed as a threatened species under the California Endangered Species Act. It originally occurred throughout California's Cascade and Sierra Nevada mountain regions. Its current distribution is unknown but should be determined in order to guide management actions. We used occurrence data from the only known population, in the Lassen Peak region of northern California, combined with climatic and remotely sensed variables, to predict the species' potential distribution throughout its historic range. These model predictions can guide future surveys to locate additional fox populations. Moreover, they allow us to compare the relative performances of presence-absence (logistic regression) and presence-only (maximum entropy, or Maxent) modeling approaches using occurrence data with potential false absences and geographical biases. We also evaluated the recently revised Maxent algorithm that reduces the effect of geographically biased occurrence data by subsetting background pixels to match biases in the occurrence data. Within the Lassen Peak region, all models had good fit to the test data, with high values for the true skill statistic (76-83%), percent correctly classified (86-92%), and area under the curve (0.94-0.96), with Maxent models yielding slightly higher values. Outside the Lassen Peak region, the logistic regression model yielded the highest predictive performance, providing the closest match to the fox's historic range and also predicting a site where red foxes were subsequently detected in autumn 2010. Subsetting background pixels in Maxent reduced but did not eliminate the effect that geographically biased occurrence data had on prediction results relative to the Maxent model using full background pixels.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1863-5407	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.3354/esr00348 ER	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Ebmer,A. W.	The west Palaearctic species of the genus Dufourea LEPELETIER 1841 (Insecta : Hymenoptera : Apoidea : Halictidae : Rophitinae) fifth supplement	Linzer Biologische Beitraege	 	2008	Jul-08	40	1	581	625	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	"The following taxa are described as new: Dufourea (Dufourea) halictula amethystina female (Spain, Sierra Nevada), Dufourea (Dufourea) phoenix female male (Tunesia; United Arab Emirates), Dufourea (Dentirophites) lusitanica EBMER 1999 male new (Spain, Coto Donana), Dufourea (Minutodufourea) bucharica female (Uzbekistan, Buchara), Dufourea (Cyprirophites) salviae male female (southwest of Turkey), Dufourea (Cyprirophites) exigua female male (United Arab Emirates). The borders of distribution in the southwest and south of Europe from Dufourea (Dufourea) minuta LEPELETIER 1841, Dufourea (Alpinodufourea) alpina MORAWITZ 1865, Dufourea (Halictoides) dentiventris (NYLANDER 1848), Dufourea (Halictoides) inermis (NYLANDER 1848) and Dufourea (Halictoides) graeca EBMER 1976 are critically revised.Flavodufourea EBMER 1984 is confirmed as subgenus of Dufourea, and the two described species of Flavodufourea, Dufourea (Flavodufourea) flavicornis FRIESE 1914 und Dufourea (Flavodufourea) ulkenkalkana PATINY 2003 are new distinctly described with a critically valuation of the loci typici. Trilia VACHAL 1899 is confirmed as a distinct genus; the lectotype of Trilia muoti (VACHAL 1899) is designated here, and a short review of the other three described species of Trilia."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0253-116X ER	 	 	 	 	 	 	Die westpalaarktischen Arten der Gattung Dufourea LEPELETIER 1841 (Insecta: Hymenoptera: Apoidea: Halictidae: Rophitinae) Funfter Nachtrag	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"El Mouden,E. H.;Slimani,T.;Donaire,D.;Fernandez-Beaskoetxea,S.;Fisher,M. C.;Bosch,J."	First Record of the Chytrid Fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis in North Africa	Herpetological Review	 	2011	Mar-11	42	1	71	75	"Infectious Diseases;Public, Environmental & Occupational Health;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Biodiversity & Conservation"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0018-084X ER	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fanes Trevino,Ingrid;Comas Gonzalez,Augusto;Sanchez Castillo,Pedro M."	Catalogue of coccal green algae from continental waters of Andalusia	Acta Botanica Malacitana	 	2009	 	34	 	11	32	"Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	Catalogue of coccal green algae from continental haters of Andalusia In Spain studies on continental aquatic ecosystems have had mainly an ecological approach In most limnological papers algae are considered as primary producers as a whole, but in general there is no depending into the identification of these organisms to more concrete levels In Andalusia taxonomical groups such as diatoms have been studied, but very few papers include taxonomical considerations on species of coccal green algae Specifically, some species have been studied in reservoirs of Huelva and Seville, in some lakes of Sierra Nevada and in ponds in the provinces of Almeria, Malaga and Granada, and even in urban aquatic environments, but always under an ecological point of view mainly In this paper we present a catalogue which includes all species of coccal green algae cited in previous studies of continental waters from Andalusia, together with new records from samples collected during the years 2004 to 2006, The catalogue includes a total of 143 species. of whom 9 are recorded for the first time in the Iberian Peninsula (Botryococcus terribilis, Chlorella minutissima, Desmodesmus grahneisu, Dicellula geminata, Dichotomococcus curvatus, Dictyosphaerum elongatum, Franceta ovalis, Paradoxia multiseta, Tetrachlorella ornata), 3 are new records for Spain (Kirchneriella rotunda, Crucigenia micronata, Treubaria schmidler), and 27 for Andalusia We indicate the provinces and localities where each taxon has been found, as well as the references of the records previous to this study	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-9506 ER	 	 	 	 	 	 	CATALOGO DE LAS ALGAS VERDES COCALES DE LAS AGUAS CONTINENTALES DE ANDALUCIA	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fernandez Calzado,Ma Rosa;Molero Mesa,Joaquin"	The cartography of vegetation in the cryoromediterranean belt of Sierra Nevada: a tool for biodiversity conservation	Lazaroa	 	2011	Dec-11	32	 	101	115	"Science & Technology - Other Topics;Biodiversity & Conservation"	Fernandez Calzado, M.R. & Molero Mesa, J. The cartography of vegetation in the cryoromediterranean belt of Sierra Nevada: a tool for biodiversity conservation. Lazaroa 32: 101-115(2011). Geographic Information Systems arc tools which have been used with great interest in vegetation studies. The mapping process developed to store data about vegetation and flora in the upper vegetation belt of Sierra Nevada (South-Eastern Spain) is shown. The aim was to elaborate a detailed cartography that served into future to detect changes in plant communities. The extension of the crioromediterranean belt was estimated in 3875.7 ha, ranging between 2750-3290 m of altitude. We have detected thirteen endemic plant communities and four variants inside, all of them are commonly distributed with low cover and very disperse form. The total of quantified taxa was 185, with more than 37 % of them are endemic of the Baetic range. Our study suggests that the Geographic Information systems are good tools for the study of very complex territories as high mountain areas. They generated information that could be used as a testimony to observe the current climatic change processes.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-9778	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.5209/rev_LAZA.2011.v32.37255 ER	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fernandez Calzado,Maria Rosa;Molero Mesa,Joaquin"	Changes in the summit flora of a Mediterranean mountain (Sierra Nevada, Spain) as a possible effect of climate change	Lazaroa	 	2013	 	34	 	65	75	"Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences;Biodiversity & Conservation"	The evidences on climate change-induced impacts on alpine plant communities is growing and some of them warn us about the expected changes in vegetation of the generally fragmented Mediterranean high mountain areas in a warmer and drier future. Short-term (2001-2008) changes in vascular plant species richness, cover and abundance were studied on four summits in the Sierra Nevada (Spain). The resurvey revealed a decrease in species richness on each summit, which is confirmed by small-scale changes in species abundance within the same summits. These changes involve local losses of high-elevation endemic species as well as the new appearance of predominantly more widespread species. Some of the latter species were also observed to expand elsewhere in the Sierra Nevada. On a small scale, cover of several endemic species decreased and cover of some species that occur on a wider altitudinal range increased. Although the observed changes are statistically only marginally or not significant, they are largely consistent with pan-European studies suggesting stagnant or declining species richness on summits of the Mediterranean biome and a 'thermophilisation' of the species composition in high mountain plant communities over the past years. Even though we cannot rule out other non-climatic factors, our results give rise to concern about the situation of the mainly endemic high-altitude flora of the Sierra Nevada and give an incentive to intensify monitoring efforts.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-9778	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.5209/rev_LAZA.2013.v34.n1.41523 ER	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fernandez Calzado,Maria Rosa;Molero Mesa,Joaquin"	High altitude flora of Sierra Nevada (Spain)	Flora Mediterranea	 	2011	 	21	 	247	255	"Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Biodiversity & Conservation"	"Spanish Sierra Nevada has one of the richest and most original flora of the western Mediterranean region with a large number of endemic species. The area is considered one of the biodiversity ""hotspots"" of the Mediterranean Basin. Its high summits are particularly important from a conservation point of view and its flora is extremely vulnerable to the impacts of climate change.This paper shows a detailed analysis of the flora in the upper vegetation belt (cryoromediterranean zone) of Sierra Nevada, based on an updated delimitation of its area (38.76 km(2)). In total, 185 species belonging to 44 families and 116 genera were catalogued. The most relevant families were; Poaceae (24 taxa), Asteraceae (20) and Caryophyllaceae (16). Despite its small territory, the high vegetation belt is prominent in endemic taxa (37.3%), 55 of which do not exceed the range of Sierra Nevada. The number of threatened taxa is 39 and the biological spectrum shows the dominance of hemieryptophytes (63.16%) and chamaephytes (26.31%). We believe that this high mountain flora data could be a strong indicator of the long-term climatic variations and might therefore be used in the future to observe possible upward movements of the taxa."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1120-4052 ER	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Foerschler,Marc I.;Klaeger,Juergen"	Range expansion of citril finches (Carduelis citrinella) in southern Spain	Aves	 	2007	 	44	1	54	57	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	"Range expansion of Citril Finches (Carduelis citrinella) in southern Spain Recently, Citril Finches have become established during the breeding season in small numbers at Puerto de la Ragua (2,000 m) in the Sierra Nevada, southern Spain. At present, this is the most southerly breeding area of the species. The observed range expansion is probably linked to the reforestation of the area with Scots Pines Pinus sylvestris, which improves considerably the food availability in the area. The origin of the birds is unknown; however, settlement after an influx of wintering birds from northern or central Spain seems probable."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0005-1993 ER	 	 	 	 	 	 	Expansion de l'aire de repartition du Venturon montagnard (Carduelis citrinella) en Espagne du sud	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fuentes Carretero,Julian Manuel;Ruiz Girela,Mario"	On the presence of Sorbus intermedia (Ehrh.) Pers. in Sierra Nevada (Granada. Spain)	Acta Botanica Malacitana	 	2013	 	38	 	214	216	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-9506 ER	 	 	 	 	 	 	SOBRE LA PRESENCIA DE SORBUS INTERMEDIA (EHRH.) PERS. EN SIERRA NEVADA (GRANADA, ESPANA).	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gaston,J.;Morente-Benitez,F. J."	First record of Bradyrrhoa adrianae Asselbergs, 2002 from outside Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain), (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae, Phycitinae)	Boletin de la SEA	 	2014	DEC 31 2014	 	55	310	311	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	The presence of Bradyrrhoa adrianae Asselbergs, 2002 is recorded for the first time outside its typical locality in Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain). The species is illustrated, as well as its genitalia.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1134-6094 ER	 	 	 	 	 	 	Primera cita de Bradyrrhoa adrianae Asselbergs, 2002 fuera de Sierra Nevada (Granada, Espana) (Lepidoptera, Pyralidae, Phycitinae)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gavilan,Rosario G.;Jimenez-Alfaro,Borja;Bacchetta,Gianluigi;Dimopoulos,Panayotis;Mucina,Ladislav"	Mountain Biodiversity patterns in Southern Europe and North Africa	Lazaroa	 	2013	 	34	 	7	10	"Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Biodiversity & Conservation"	About 19% of European population lives in mountainous regions - a notably more than the global average. The 50% of the Earth's population depends on the mountain resources, mainly on drinking and industrial water and energy. however, the role of the mountain regions as place of recreation and leisure should not be underestimated as it is a major source economic force in some countries but also one of sources of problems creating pressure on mountain biota and landscapes.Lazaroa, Journal of Botany, presents this feature with a collection of papers focused on Biodiversity of South Europe and northern Africa mountain ranges. Geographically, it covers the main mountain chains of Europe and of north Africa, including those of the Balkans, Dinarides, Apennines, pyrennees, Cantabrian Mts, Sierra nevada and a whole array of other Mediterranean mountain ranges such as the Sistema Central in the Iberian peninsula and those of portugal and Sicily, and finally the Atlas of north Africa.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-9778	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.5209/rev_LAZA.2013.v34.n1.43650 ER	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jose Guerrero,Juan;Ortiz,Antonio S.;Maria Rubio,Rosa"	On the distribution of Idaea gelbrechti Hausmann, 2003 in the Ibero-Maghrebian region (Geometridae: Sterrhinae)	Nota Lepidopterologica	Nota Lepidopterol.	2012	NOV 15 2012	35	2	193	196	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	Idaea gelbrechti Hausmann, 2003 was described from specimens collected in Morocco, and later on it was discovered in Spain in 2010. This species is very similar to Idaea aversata (Linnaeus, 1758) and it might be its sister species. Also, I. gelbrechti seems to be one of those species that very often remain undetected or overlooked in public and private collections. New records in Southeastern Iberian Peninsula confirm its Ibero-Maghrebian distribution in habitats characterised by the presence of pine and oak forest and mountain shrubland above 1,100 mill altitude, with a meso and supramediterranean climatic biotype. This species seems to be monovoltine with records from the beginning of July in lower altitude sites through the end of August in Sierra Nevada at 1,700 m.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0342-7536 ER	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Linares Cuesta,Jose Eduardo;Sanchez Castillo,Pedro M."	New reports of diatoms from the Iberian Peninsula in high mountain lakes from Sierra Nevada National Park (Granada, Spain)	Boletin de la Real Sociedad Espanola de Historia Natural Seccion Biologica	 	2007	 	102	01-Apr	5	11	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology"	We analyze seven diatom taxa found in a study of benthic communities in high mountain lakes of Sierra Nevada National Park. Five species are new taxa for Iberian Peninsula diatom flora according to ABOAL. et al. (2003): Achnanthidium macrocephalum (Hust.) Round & Bukhtiyarova, Caloneis aerophila Bock, Encyonema reichardtii (Krammer) Mann, Rossithidium nodosum (Cl.) Aboal and Surirella bohemica Maly, and two infraspecific taxa: Caloneis silicula (Ehr.) Cl. forma peisonis (Grun.) Krammer and Pinnularia borealis Ehr. var. rectangularis Carlson. Another six taxa are also considered, by ecological or chorological factors. interesting for the Iberian diatom flora.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0366-3272 ER	 	 	 	 	 	 	Nuevas citas de diatomeas bentonicas para la Peninsula Iberica procedentes de las lagunas de alta montana del Parque Nacional de Sierra Nevada (Granada, Espana)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Luceno,Modesto;Jimenez Mejias,Pedro;Escudero,Marcia;Sanchez Gullon,Enrique;Weickert,Pedro"	New chorological records of two rare Cyperaceae from Andalusia	Acta Botanica Malacitana	 	2007	 	32	 	311	312	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-9506 ER	 	 	 	 	 	 	NUEVAS CITAS DE DOS CIPERACEAS RARAS EN ANDALUCIA	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Monserrat,V. J.;Trivino,V.;Acevedo,F.;Garcia,A."	New data on some brown lacewings species from the Iberian Peninsula and the Canary Islands, including a new Neotropical invasive species in Portugal	Graellsia	 	2013	JUL-DEC 2013	69	2	157	168	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	New data on the distribution, biology and phenology of 25 brown lacewings species (Insecta, Neuroptera: Hemerobiidae) of Iberian and Canaries fauna are given.The species Hemerobius bolivari Banks, 1910, widely distributed in the Neotropical Region, is recorded for the first time in Europe as a new invasive species, from specimens Thaumastocoridae) colonies on Eucalyptus in Lisbon (Portugal). This brown lacewing species, along with Sympherobius gayi Navas, 1910, also known from South America, is the second invasive species of neotropical origin, belonging to this family, that is recorded in the Iberian Peninsula, both from Portugal. We also mention several species that have been seldom recorded in the Iberian Peninsula, and among them Wesmaelius ravus (Withycombe, 1923) is recorded for the second time in the Iberian Peninsula, now from Sierra Nevada (Granada).From samplings made in southern Spain (Malaga, Granada) Micromus angulatus (Stephens, 1836) shows activity as imagoes during winter time (the entire year in the Iberian Peninsula, including this area), and these data seem also to confirm its link to grass vegetation.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0367-5041	 	 	 	 	 	 	NUEVOS DATOS SOBRE ALGUNAS ESPECIES DE HEMEROBIDOS DE LA PENINSULA IBERICA E ISLAS CANARIAS, INCLUYENDO UNA NUEVA ESPECIE INVASORA DE ORIGEN NEOTROPICAL EN PORTUGAL (INSECTA, NEUROPTERA, HEMEROBIIDAE)	 	 	10.3989/graellsia.2013.v69.083 ER	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Paegelow,M.;Camacho,Olmedo M. T.;Ferraty,F.;Ferre,L.;Sarda,P.;Villa,N."	Prospective modelling of environmental dynamics: A methodological comparison applied to mountain land cover changes	Environmental Science and Engineering	 	2008	 	 	 	141	167	"Mathematical & Computational Biology;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	During the last 10 years, scientists have made significant advances in modelling environmental dynamics. A wide range of new methodological approaches in geomatics -such as neural networks, multi-agent systems or fuzzy logics- have been developed. Despite this progress, the modelling softwares available have to be considered as experimental tools rather than improved procedures that are able to work for environmental management or decision support. In particular, the authors think that a large number of publications suffer from discrepancies, when trying to validate their model's results.This contribution describes three different modelling approaches applied to prospective land cover prediction. The first one, a combined geomatic method, uses Markov chains for temporal transition prediction, while their spatial assignment is supervised manually by the construction of suitability maps. Compared to this directed method, the two others may be considered as semi-automatic because both the polychotomous regression and the multilayer perceptron only need to be optimized during a training step the algorithms themselves detect the spatial-temporal changes in land cover.The authors describe the three methodological approaches and their practical applications to two mountainous studied areas: one in the French Pyrenees, the second including a large part of Sierra Nevada, Spain. The article focuses on the comparison of results. The major result is that prediction scores are higher than the actual land cover is persistent. They also underline that the geomatic model is complementary to the statistical ones which perform higher overall prediction rates but produce weaker simulations when there are numerous land cover changes.	PT: S	 	Paegelow,M. CamachoOlmedo,MT	Environmental Science and Engineering:Environmental Engineering	 	 	 				 	"1863-5520(print); 978-3-540-68489-3(H)"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/978-3-540-68498-5_5 ER	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Perez Latorre,A. V.;Pavon Nunez,M.;Hidalgo Triana,N."	Alnus glutinosa forests in Sierra Nevada (Granada-Almeria, Spain)	Lagascalia	 	2011	 	31	 	161	174	"Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	Alnus glutinosa forests in Sierra Nevada (Granada-Almeria, Spain). A phytosociological survey has been made on Alnus glutinosa forests in Sierra Nevada. Historical and bibliographical data have been compiled as well as published and new phytosociological inventories. The known distribution of Alnus glutinosa forests in Sierra Nevada is concentrated in two main zones: in the southern slope along the rivers Poqueira and Trevelez (Granada) and in the northern slope along the tributaries of the Alhama de Lugros river (Granada). They have been also inventoried in Almeria province (Andarax river). After detailed analysis of phytosociological inventories and tables as well as for the ecology, floristic composition, distribution and forest structure, we conclude that the A. glutinosa forests of Sierra Nevada represent a new association: Carici camposii-Alnetum glutinosae ass. nova. They are well developed forest with trees, shrubs, and grasses strata, appearing in river banks with permanent streams, on siliceous soils in the supramediterranean bioclimatic belt of the Nevadense phytogeographical sector (Betic province). A variant, indicated by Geum urbanum, develops in high incline slopes with permanent wet soils where A. glutinosa forests show the greatest biomass (canopy cover and height of trees). Analysis of synthetic table shows clear division from the rest of the Osmundo-Alnion south-Iberian forests, emphasizing the absence of the main indicator of the alliance (Osmunda regalis) in the new association.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-7708 ER	 	 	 	 	 	 	SOBRE LAS ALISEDAS NEVADENSES (SIERRA NEVADA, GRANADA-ALMERIA, ESPANA)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sanchez-Gonzalez,Arturo;Lopez-Mata,Lauro;Vibrans,Heike"	Composition and geographic distribution patterns of the fir forest flora of Cerro Tlaloc, Mexico	Boletin de la Sociedad Botanica de Mexico	Bol.Soc.Bot.Mex.	2006	Dec-06	79	 	67	78	"Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	"The floristic composition and the distribution of families, genera, and species of vascular plants of the fir forest of Cerro Tlaloc, on the northern Sierra Nevada, were analyzed. In an aftitudinal range from 3,000 to 3,500 m, the largest possible number of vascular plants was collected during 16 months. There were 44 families, 94 genera, and 137 species. Three fourths of the species belong to only 15 families, among which Asteraceae, Poaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Geraniaceae, Onagraceae, and Pinaceae stand out. Most families and genera have a wide distribution; approximately 88% of the species are exclusive of the Americas, among which 32% are endemic to Mexico and 31% to Mexico-Central America. Only 6.6% of the species are exotic, suggesting changes in the floristic composition of the fir forest as a consequence of human activities."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0366-2128 ER	 	 	 	 	 	 	COMPOSICION Y PATRONES DE DISTRIBUCION GEOGRAFICA DE LA FLORA DEL BOSQUE DE OYAMEL DEL CERRO TLALOC, MEXICO	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Zuazo,V. H. Duran;Martinez,J. R. Francia;Pleguezuelo,C. R. Rodriguez;Raya,A. Martinez;Rodriguez,B. Carceles"	Soil-erosion and runoff prevention by plant covers in a mountainous area (se spain): Implications for sustainable agriculture	Environmentalist	Environmentalist	2006	Dec-06	26	4	309	319	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	In the Mediterranean region the intensities and amounts of soil loss and runoff on sloping land are governed by rainfall pattern and vegetation cover. Over a two-year period (1998-1999), six wild species of aromatic and mellipherous plants (Thymus serpylloides subsp. Gadorensis, Thymus baeticus Boiss, Salvia lavandulifolia Vahl., Santolina rosmarinifolia L., Lavandula stoechas L. and Genista umbellata Poiret) were selected for erosion plots to determine their effectiveness in reducing water erosion on hillslopes of the Sierra Nevada Mountain (SE Spain). The erosion plots (including a bare-soil plot as control), located at 1,345 m in altitude, were 2 m(2) (2 m x 1 m) in area and had 13% incline. The lowest runoff and soil erosion rates, ranging from 9 to 26 mm yr(-1) and from 0.01 to 0.31 Mg ha(-1) yr(-1), respectively, over the entire study period, were measured under the Thymus serpylloides. Lavandula stoechas L. registered the highest rates among the plant covers tested, runoff ranging from 77 to 127 mm yr(-1) and erosion from 1.67 to 3.50 Mg ha(-1) yr(-1). In the bare-soil plot, runoff ranged from 154 to 210 mm yr(-1) and erosion from 4.45 to 7.82 Mg ha(-1) yr(-1). According to the results, the lowest-growing plant covers (Thymus serpylloides and Salvia lavandulifolia Vahl.) discouraged the soil erosion and runoff more effectively than did the taller and open medium-sized shrubs (Santolina rosmarinifolia L., Genista umbellata Poiret, Thymus baeticus Boiss and Lavandula stoechas L.). Monitoring allowed more direct linkage to be made between plant covers and the prevention of erosion, with implications for sustainable mountain agriculture and environmental protection.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0251-1088	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10.1007/s10669-006-0160-4 ER	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 