Reference Type	Authors, Primary	Title Primary	Periodical Full	Periodical Abbrev	Pub Year	Pub Date Free From	Volume	Issue	Start Page	Other Pages	Keywords	Abstract	Notes	Personal Notes	Authors, Secondary	Title Secondary	Edition	Publisher	Place Of Publication	Authors, Tertiary	Authors, Quaternary	Authors, Quinary	Title, Tertiary	ISSN/ISBN	Availability	Author/Address	Accession Number	Language	Classification	Sub file/Database	Original Foreign Title	Links	URL	DOI	PMID	PMCID	Call Number	Database	Data Source	Identifying Phrase	Retrieved Date	Shortened Title	User 1	User 2	User 3	User 4	User 5	User 6	User 7	User 8	User 9	User 10	User 11	User 12	User 13	User 14	User 15Journal Article	"Aguilar Ruiz,J.;Fernandez Garcia,J.;Rodriguez Rebollo,T.;Sierra Ruiz De La Fuente,C."	Classification Problems of some Soils in the Sierra Nevada Spain	Anales de Edafologia y Agrobiologia	 	1986	 	45	07-Aug	949	960	"Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences;Agriculture"	The process of melanization and hydromorphy are characteristic of the types of soils which appear at the edges of river and small stream of Sierra Nevada (Spain) between 1,600 and 2,200 m on the sea level. The morphology and development of these soils are due to the action of the climate of high mountain with big stational contrast, a vegetation which is typical of the edges of river with some nitrate accumulator species and the parent material, micaschist. The accumulation and the degree of humifidication of organic matter is related with the contribution of high amounts of roots and other plant residues as were on the action and quantities of worms. The hydromorphy of these soils is reduced to the presence of red mottled of iron near of the stones and gravel. The soil type gley evolve in a reductor regimen of moisture which is not present in our soils because of the water in the voids of these soils is not a stagnant water but a water which circulates and whose contribution is linked to the thaw of the snow of Sierra Nevada and so is a water that contains O2. The hydromorphologic process are indicated by their low chromas and red mottles, due to the characteristics and weathering of the original material. The creation of a new subgroupat the F.A.O. System: Lithochromic gleysols is proposed for these soils.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0365-1797 ER	 	"AGUILAR RUIZ J; DPTO EDAFOL FAC DE CIENCIAS, GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Alba Tercedor,J.	Characteristics of Phenology and Distribution of the Plecopteran Species from Sierra Nevada Spain Insecta Plecoptera	Boletin de la Asociacion Espanola de Entomologia	Bol.Asoc.Esp.Entomol.	1989	 	13	 	213	230	"Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology;Physiology"	According with a sampling program of differents streams from the Sierra Nevada mountains (Spain), the phenology, altitudinal distribution and characteristics of the zones where plecopteran species were caught, are studied.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-8984 ER	 	"SANCHEZ-ORTEGA A; DEP BIOL ANIM ECOL Y GENETICA, FAC CIENCIAS, UNIV GRANADA, 18071 GRANADA, GRENADA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Alba-Tercedor J;Sanchez-Ortega a"	Presence of the Genus Torleya Insecta Ephemeroptera Ephemerellidae on the Iberian Peninsula	Boletin de la Real Sociedad Espanola de Historia Natural Seccion Biologica	 	1982	 	80	01-Feb	81	88	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Developmental Biology;Anatomy & Morphology"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0366-3272 ER	 	"ALBA-TERCEDOR J; DEPARTAMENTO DE ZOOLOGIA, FACULTAD DE CIENCIAS, UNIVERSIDAD DE GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Arroyo Nombela,J. J.;Rodriguez Murcia,C.;Abaigar,T.;Vericad,J. R."	Cytogenetic Analysis Gtg Cbg and nor Bands of a Wild Boar Population Sus-Scrofa-Scrofa with Chromosomal Polymorphism in the South-East of Spain	Genetics Selection Evolution (Paris)	 	1990	 	22	1	1	10	"Agriculture;Cell Biology;Genetics & Heredity"	The karyotypes of 12 wild boars (4 .male., 8 .female.) from populations in Sierra Nevada and Sierra de Baza (Almeria) were analysed. Chromosomal polymorphism giving rise to 3 variants in the diploid number [2n = 38 (1.male.), 2n = 37 (2 .male., 1 .female.) and 2n = 36 (1 .male., 7 .female.)] was observed. By means of GTC-band analysis, this polymorphism proved to be the consequence of a Robertsonian translocation between members of pairs 15 and 17 of karyotypes with 2n = 38, thereby creating a long submetacentric chromosome (15/17) together with 2 free acrocentric chromosomes, (15 and 17) in individuals with 2n = 27, and a pair of long submetacentric chromosomes (15.17) in 2n = 36 specimens. CBG-band analysis revealed 2 types of staining for heterochromatin: a dark staining, characteristic of acrocentric chromosomes and occasionally present in the submetacentric (15/17), and a pale staining, characteristic of the rest of the submetacentric chromosomes. The Y-chromosome presented dark heterochromatin over the entire length of its long arm. The nucleolus organizers were observed on pairs 8 and 10 and showed heteromorphism of the size of the silver block and in the distribution in both pairs.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0999-193X ER	 	"ARROYO NOMBELA J J; LABORATORIO CITOGENETICA ANIMAL, CSIC, C/SERRANO 113, 28006 MADRID, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Asselbergs,J. E. F.	Bradyrrhoa adrianae Asselbergs, sp. n., from Spain. Epischidia (Epischidia) fulvostrigella (Eversmann, 1844) and Ancylosis (Ancylosis) maculifera Staudinger, 1870 new to the Spanish fauna (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae, Phycitinae).	SHILAP Revista de Lepidopterologia	 	2002	30 Diciembre, 2002	30	120	291	295	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	Bradyrrhoa adrianae Asselbergs, sp. n. from Spain, Sierra Nevada, is described. Epischidia (Epischidia) fulvostrigella (Eversmann, 1844) and Ancylosis (Ancylosis) maculifera Staudinger, 1870, both new to Spain, are mentioned with some remarks.	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0300-5267 ER	 	"Asselbergs, J. E. F.; Neerland, 20, NL-4614 GD, Bergen Op Zoom, Netherlands"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Avila,J. M.	Comparative Analysis of Coprophagous Scarabaeoidea Coleoptera in the Faecal Pellets of Rabbit Oryctolagus-Cuniculus and in the Excrements of Other Mammals Preliminary Report	EOS-Revista Espanola de Entomologia	 	1991	 	67	NOV	23	34	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Gastroenterology & Hepatology;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Physiology"	Records about coprophagous scarabs from faecal pellets of rabbit are reported. Faunistic composition of faecal pellets is studied during the period from December 1986 to January 1989 in Chiclana de la Frontera (Cadiz) [Spain]. The characterization of this fauna and the relationship with other data reported by the same authors in the same area of study are commented in relation with bovine and equine sediment scarabs fauna and the results from rabbit excrements from Granada province. The relationship between faunistic composition from different sort of excrements (equine, bovine, ovine/caprine, rabbit) and different localities (Chiclana de la Frontera, Sierra Nevada, Sierra de Alfacar, Pujaire and provinces of Granada and Albacete) as the results of our sampling and the records of the bibliography are studied. We conclude the existence of a fauna associated to rabbit faecal pellets and the influence of geographic factors and the characteristics of excrements on coprophagous scarabs.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0013-9440 ER	 	"SANCHEZ-PINERO F; DEP BIOLOGIA ANIMAL, ECOLOGIA GENETICA, FACULTAD CIENCIAS, UNIV GRANADA, 18071 GRANADA, GRENADA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Avila,J. M.;Pascual,F."	Space-Temporal Distribution Models of Dung Scarabs of Sierra Nevada Granada Spain Coleoptera Scarabaeoidea	Elytron (Barcelona)	 	1990	 	4	 	67	74	"Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Mathematical & Computational Biology;Physiology"	Dung beetles from equine and bovine droppings were sampled in the Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain) from March 1981 to February 1983. On the basis of the space-temporal distribution observed, six basic models of altitudinal distribution as a function of time have been established. Three of these models apply to species with broad requirements capable of supporting both the high temperatures of the lowlands and the cool temperatures of the highlands. The other three models apply to species with narrower requirements incapable of supporting very high and/or low temperatures. Some of them are unable to support the summer period of the mediterranean climate.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0214-1353 ER	 	"AVILA J M; DEP BIOLOGIA ANIMAL ECOLOGIA GENETICA, FACULTAD CIENCIAS, UNIV GRANADA, 18071 GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Avila,J. M.;Pascual,F."	Contribution to the Knowledge of Coprophagous Scarabs Coleoptera Scarabaeoidea of the Sierra Nevada Spain Iii. Altitudinal and Temporal Distribution	Museo Regionale di Scienze Naturali Bollettino (Turin)	 	1988	 	6	1	217	240	"Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Physiology"	Altitude, year month and hour of capture, as a part of variables influencing the distribution of coprophagous scarabs, are analyzed according to the results of a sampling carried out in semi-fresh bovine and equine excrements in Sierra Nevada. Respect to altitude, preferences of different species are shown which allow as differentiate groups of low, medium and high mountain, however some species lives in a wide range of altitudes. Their distribution during the year is very different: few species are present during all the year. Each season, or even each short seasonal period has its own faune. Typically explosive species appear between the end of summer and the beginning of autumn. They are progressively present at different altitudes in all excrements and generally with high number of specimens. The greatest abundance at the different hours of the day is in relation with the activity of different species.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0392-758X ER	 	"AVILA J M; UNIV GRANADA, DEP BIOL ANIMAL, ECOL GENETICA, FAC CIENCIAS, 18071 GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Avila,J. M.;Pascual,F."	Contribution to the Study of the Coprophagous Scarabaeoidea from the Sierra Nevada Spain I. Introduction and Species List Coleoptera Scarabaeoidea	Boletin de la Asociacion Espanola de Entomologia	Bol.Asoc.Esp.Entomol.	1987	 	11	 	81	86	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	A biannual sampling, from March 1981 to February 1983, was carried in Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain) to know the fauna of the dung beetles, superfamily Scarabaeoidea, from equine and bovine sediments. A number of 7794 exemplars, belonging to 55 species in 13 genus of the families Scarabaeidae, Aphodiidae and Geotropidae was captured. In the present paper, it is shown, in taxonomical order, the different species of dung beetles found, and their localization in Sierra Nevada.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-8984 ER	 	"AVILA J M; DEPARTAMENTO DE BIOLOGIA ANIMAL, ECOLOGIA Y GENETICA, FACULTAD DE CIENCIAS, UNIVERSIDAD DE GRANADA, 18071 GRANADA, GRENADA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Avila,J. M.;Pascual,Y. F."	Contribution to the Study of the Coprophagous Scarabaeidae from the Sierra Nevada Spain V. Autoecology of Species of the Families Scarabaeidae and Geotrupidae Coleoptera Scarabaeoidea	EOS-Revista Espanola de Entomologia	 	1988	 	64	1	15	38	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Physiology;Developmental Biology;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Mathematical & Computational Biology"	In Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain), from March of 1981 to February of 1983, semifresh equine and bovine feces were samples. 3357 specimens of the families Scarabaeidae and Geotrupidae were caught (corresponding to 12 genera and 24 species). The relationships between different species of dung beetles and different ecological parameters (topographic, temporal and biological factors) were analyzed. The phenology and space distribution is discussed in the most abundant species. On the other hand, general models of fenology of these beetles are presented. Possible causes of the high altitudinal distribution abserved in Sierra Nevada mountains are discussed.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0013-9440 ER	 	"AVILA J M; DEP BIOLOGIA ANIMAL, ECOLOGIA GENETICA, FAC CIENCIAS, UNIV GRANADA, 18071 GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Avila,Jose M.;Romero-Alcaraz,Eduardo"	[Aphodius (Loraspis) frater Mulsant and Rey, 1870 present in the south of Spain (Coleoptera, Scarabaeoidea, Aphodiidae)]	Nouvelle Revue d'Entomologie	Nouv.Rev.Entomol.	2000	Janvier-Mars, 2000	17	1	67	68	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	 	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0374-9797 ER	 	"Avila, Jose M.; Romero-Alcaraz, Eduardo; Departamento de Biologia Animal y Ecologia, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Granada, E-18071, Granada, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	Sobre la presencia de Aphodius (Loraspis) frater Mulsant and Rey, 1870 en el sur de la Peninsula Iberica (Coleoptera, Scarabaeoidea, Aphodiidae)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Barahona Fernandez,E.;Linares,J."	The Soils of the Barranco-Hondo Sierra-Nevada Spain 1. Typology and Soil Forming Factors	Anales de Edafologia y Agrobiologia	 	1979	 	38	09-Oct	1543	1554	Agriculture	The studied area is located within the Dilar river basin at elevations between 2000-2500 m. Quartzites and micaschists are the most widespread rocks. The oldest geomorphic surfaces (slopes < 20.degree.) are occupied by Entic Cryumbrepts, while in the younger ones (slopes over 20.degree.) Lithic Cryorthents are the dominant soils. Differences in profile development for the Cryumbrepts depend mainly on slight differences in relief.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0365-1797 ER	 	"DELGADO CALVO-FLORES R; ESTACION EXP ZAIDIN, CSIC, GRANADA, GRENADA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Conference Proceedings	"Bastazo,G.;Vela,J. M.;Avila,J. M."	Chrysomelidae Coleoptera of Sierra Nevada Southern Spain	 	 	1989	 	 	 	91	92	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	 	"PT: B; SO: EUROPEAN ASSOCIATION OF COLEOPTEROLOGY. INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF    COLEOPTEROLOGY, ABSTRACTS VOLUME, BARCELONA, SPAIN, SEPTEMBER 18-23,    1989. 156P. ASOCIACION EUROPEA DE COLEOPTEROLOGIA: BARCELONA, SPAIN.    ILLUS. PAPER"	 		 	 	 	 				 	84-404-4971-2 ER	 	"BASTAZO G; TRAFALGAR 3, 1 4, 29003 MALAGA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	"DT: Book; Meeting"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Book, Whole	"Baudiere,A.;Serve,L."	Oro Mediterranean Groupings in the Eastern Pyrenees and their Relation to Similar Groups in the Sierra-Nevada	 	 	1975	 	 	 	468	 	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Anatomy & Morphology ER"	 	PT: B	 		 	 	 	 				 	 	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Book	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Beaucournu J-C	A New Flea for the Iberian Fauna Peromyscopsylla-Spectabilis-Viatrix New-Subspecies Siphonaptera Leptopsyllidae	Entomologiste (Paris)	 	1975	 	31	6	227	230	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology;Parasitology"	The new subspecies was found on and in nests of Microtus nivalis (Martins) in the Sierra Nevada (Granada [Spain]). P. s. viatrix is described and compared with P. s. spectabilis. The distribution and origin of P. spectabilis, P. silvatica (Meinert) and P. fallax (Rothschild) and their hosts are briefly discussed.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0013-8886 ER	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Bermejo-Orantes,F. J.;Garcia-Fernandez,P."	Morphological variability of Apis mellifera iberica in different apiaries of southern Spain	Journal of Apicultural Research	J.Apic.Res.	1995	 	34	1	23	30	"Entomology;Pathology;Physiology"	"Seven morphometric characters were measured in bees (Apis mellifera iberica) sampled from 12 locations in the south of the Iberian peninsula. A discriminant analysis showed that there were three distinct biometric groups which corresponded to the following geographical areas. Group 1: area of influence of the Guadalquivir valley (localities of Dos Hermanas, Hornachuelos, Lepe, Trassierra and Castellar de la Frontera), along with the localities of Caceres, Murcia and Vadillo; Group 2: area of Sierra Nevada and bordering areas (localities of Lanjaron, Pinos del Valle and Berja); Group 3: Mediterranean seaboard, along with the locality of Marc; 92.15% of the bees sampled were correctly assigned to their geographical locations. Groups 1 and 2 were very similar to each other, while the third differed considerably from both, displaying a very low cubital index. The variable with greatest discriminatory potential was the length of hairs on the fifth abdominal tergite. The origin of these populations and possible affinities between groups and their relationship to migratory beekeeping routes are discussed."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0021-8839 ER	 	Departamento de Produccion Anim., Centro de Investigacion y Desarrollo Agrario, Camino de Purchil s/n, 18004 Granada, Spain	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Conference Proceedings	"Blanca,G.;Clemente Munoz,M.;Hernandez Bermejo,J. E.;Matilla,A.;Molero Mesa,J.;Pujadas,A."	Restoration Project for the Jardin De Altura De Sierra Nevada Sierra Nevada High Altitude Garden Granada Spain	 	 	1990	May 10-14, 1987	 	 	93	96	"Plant Sciences;Biodiversity & Conservation;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	 	PT: B	 	"Hernandez Bermejo,J. E.;Clemente,M.;Heywood,V."	"Conservation Techniques in Botanic Gardens; International Conference on Techniques for the Conservation of Threatened Plant Species in Botanic Gardens in the Mediterranean Area"	Cordoba, Spain	Koeltz Scientific Books	"Koenigstein, Germany; Champaign, Illinois, Usa. Illus. Maps"				 	"1-878762-17-6; 3-87429-323-8 ER"	 	"BLANCA G; DEPARTAMENTO DE BIOLOGIA VEGETAL, UNIVERSIDAD DE GRANADA, ESPANA"	 	 	 	"DT: Book; Meeting"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Conference Proceedings	"Blanca,G.;Molero Mesa,J."	Threat of Extinction in Sierra Nevada Granada Spain	 	 	1990	May 10-14, 1987	 	 	97	102	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Plant Sciences;Biodiversity & Conservation;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	 	PT: B	 	"Hernandez Bermejo,J. E.;Clemente,M.;Heywood,V."	"Conservation Techniques in Botanic Gardens; International Conference on Techniques for the Conservation of Threatened Plant Species in Botanic Gardens in the Mediterranean Area"	Cordoba, Spain	Koeltz Scientific Books	"Koenigstein, Germany; Champaign, Illinois, Usa. Illus. Maps"				 	"1-878762-17-6; 3-87429-323-8 ER"	 	"BLANCA G; DEPARTAMENTO DE BIOLOGIA VEGETAL, FACULTAD DE CIENCIAS, UNIVERSIDAD DE GRANADA, ESPANA"	 	 	 	"DT: Book; Meeting"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Bocio,I.;Lorite,J.;Navarro,F. B.;Valle,F."	[Application of phytosociology in the restoration of fire-affected zones. An example in Sierra Nevada (southeast Spain).]	[Data of the sigmatist (Braun-Blanquet) phytosociology.Structure, management, use.]	 	2000	 	Volume 27	 	979	997	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	 	PT: S ME: print	 	Gehu,Jean-Marie	Colloques Phytosociologiques	 	 	 				 	"1430-0540; 3-443-70015-2 (cloth) ER"	 	"Navarro, F. B.; Valle, F.; Dpto. Biologia Vegetal, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Granada, C/Severo Ochoa s/no., 18071, Granada, Spain"	 	 	 	"DT: Book Chapter; Meeting; LT: Meeting Paper"	"Aplicacion de la fitosociologia a la restauracion de la vegetacion en zonas incendiadas; un ejemplo en Sierra Nevada (S.E. Espana)."	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Boettinger,Janis L.;Schupp,Eugene W.;Castro,Jorge;Gomez,Jose Maria;Zamora,Regino"	Soil acidification following burning of pine plantations, Sierra Nevada, Spain	Ecological Society of America Annual Meeting Abstracts	 	2001	 	86	 	257	 	"Agriculture;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	 	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	 	 	 	 	 	 	"DT: Meeting; LT: Meeting Abstract"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Boucher,C.	Data for a Phytoecological Map of Andalusia Spain I. Abiotic Environment	Ecologia Mediterranea	 	1989	 	15	01-Feb	3	22	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Plant Sciences;Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Physiology"	"The author collects the preliminary documents to realize a synthetical map of the ecological and botanical factors in Andalucia (Spain). In the first part, he gives the natural limits of the province (and its position in the mediterranean basin (between 36.degree. and 38.degree. 40N)). In the second part, he describes the main lithological unities of the province (N-E sector calcareous and mountainous; S-E with the Sierra Nevada siliceous; West with great complexity). The great part of the work is an analysis of the climate. The average temperature shows a N-E sector with great amplitudes, comparatively cool; a S-E region with steep thermical gradients of altitude and a hot west region, with slight amplitude. The maximas of rainfall are in the western region and the N-E. After the study of regional climates, the author analyses the coastal one, and he tries to build an accurate system for the definition of the mediterranean mountain climates."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0153-8756 ER	 	"BOUCHER C; DOMAINE SAINT-JEAN, D1, 13011 MARSEILLE"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Brugues,Montserrat;Sergio,Cecilia;Casas,Creu;Cros,Rosa M."	Rediscovery of Brachymenium commutatum (Mull.Hal.) A. Jaeger and Pohlia andalusica (Hohn.) Broth. in the Sierra Nevada (SE Spain).	Lindbergia	Lindbergia	2003	Sep-03	28	2	99	101	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	 	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0105-0761 ER	 	"Brugues, Montserrat; Casas, Creu; Cros, Rosa M.; Botanica, Univ. Autonoma de Barcelona, ES-08193, Bellaterra, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Brullo,S.;Pavone,P.;Salmeri,C."	A new species of Allium sect. Codonoprasum from Sierra Nevada (Spain)	Sendtnera	 	1996	 	3	0	95	100	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Cell Biology;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Genetics & Heredity;Anatomy & Morphology"	A new species of Allium sect. Codonoprasum, Allium valdesianum, is described and illustrated. A. valdesianum occurs in the alpine belt of the Sierra Nevada, S Spain and grows there on rocky pastures. Its karyology, leaf anatomy and taxonomical relationships are discussed.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0944-0178 ER	 	"Brullo, S.; Dipartimento di Botanica, via A. Longo 19, I-95125, Catania, Italy"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Calle Martinez,D.;Vilchez Quero,A.;Casas Jimenez,J. J."	Chironomids (Diptera) of the Upper Guadalquivir (Sierra de Cazorla, Southern Spain)	Annales de Limnologie	Ann.Limnol.	1995	 	31	3	201	213	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Developmental Biology;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology;Physiology"	"Pupal exuviae, pupae and imagines of chironomids were collected by drift and hand netting from 17 sites on the Upper Guadalquivir, Andalusia, Southern Spain, in 1987 and 1988. The sites covered an altitudinal range from 240 m to 1330 m. The collections revealed a mixed fauna of 165 species, 86 of which are new to the Guadalquivir region and 21 to Spain. 4 new exuviae were sampled. The total number of species recorded now for the Iberian Peninsula is 376. 26% of the species have a holarctic distribution, 70% are palaearctic, among them 46% have a broad distribution and 5% a mediterranean distribution; 1% has an afrotropical distribution and 3% are present in various geographical regions. A high faunistic similarity with the French Pyrenees and Massif Central is noticeable. Nevertheless, there is a significant difference with the Sierra Nevada, nearer geographically, due to the different hydrological and physiographical conditions between the two prospected regions. The faunistic similarity among Moroccan rivers located in the Rif and the Upper Atlas is not so great but further samplings around these zones could increase considerably their specific similitude."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	Mar-88	 	"Calle Martinez, D.; Inst. de Bachillerato Los Manantiales, Dep. de Biol. Geol., 29620 Torremolinos, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	10.1051/limn/1995018 ER	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Casas,J. Jesus;Langton,Peter H."	The larva and pupa of Diamesa veletensis Serra-Tosio, 1971 (Diptera: Chironomidae)	Entomologist's Gazette	Entomol.Gaz.	2001	09-Apr-01	52	2	117	124	Developmental Biology	 	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0013-8894 ER	 	"Langton, Peter H.; 5 Kylebeg Avenue, Mountsandel, Coleraine, Co. Londonderry, BT52 1JN, UK"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Cebolla Lozano,C.;Rivas Ponce,M. A."	Considerations on Festuca-Baetica in Sierra Nevada Granada Spain	Lagascalia	 	1990	 	15	2	161	164	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology"	The panicular characters of Festuca paniculata (L.) Schinz and Thell. subsp. baetica (Hackel) Emberger and Maire in Sierra Nevada (Granada) are analyzed. The combination F. baetic subsp. moleroi Cebolla and Rivas Ponce is proposed.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-7708 ER	 	"CEBOLLA LOZANO C; CU SAN PABLO, MADRID, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Chueca,F. E.	Plant Species and Communities of the Calcareous Region of the Sierra-Nevada Plants from Dornajo and Treveneque	Boletim da Sociedade Broteriana	 	1973	1973/74	47	SUPPL	179	224	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0081-0657 ER	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Dathe,Holger H.	Studies on the systematics and taxonomy of the genus Hylaeus F. (3) (Apidae, Colletinae). A revision of the Hylaeus nivalis group in Europe, and the identity of additional Western Palaeartic species	Beitraege zur Entomologie	Beitr.Entomol.	2000	 	50	1	151	174	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	"The discovery of three new species, Hylaeus (H.) hellenicus sp. n., H. ibericus sp. n. and H. pyrenaicus sp. n., gave rise to a revision of the European taxa of the Hylaeus nivalis group; a key to the males is given. In the Hylaeus communis group, in the Westpalaearctic region two morphologically separated species circles are defined: communis s. str. und deceptorius. New synonymy: Hylaeus (H.) deceptorius (BENOIST) = Prosopis communis cretica WARNCKE syn. n. The Hylaeus garrulus group from the Iberian peninsula consists of three species. Their distribution has to be re-examined, a key is provided. One species is new, H. (Prosopis) convergens sp. n. The following additional species are described: H. (Paraprosopis) emir sp. n. (UAE), H. (Koptogaster) tetris sp. n. (Turkey). H. (Hylaeus) cervinus (WARNCKE, 1992) male is redescribed."	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0005-805X ER	 	"Dathe, Holger H.; Deutsches Entomologisches Institut im Zentrum fuer Agrarlandschafts- und Landnutzungsforschung (ZALF), Schicklerstrasse 5, D - 16225, Eberswalde, Germany"	 	 	 	"DT: Article; LT: Taxonomic Review; Taxonomic Key"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"de Figueroa,Jose Manuel Tierno;Sanchez-Ortega,Antonino"	Imaginal feeding of twelve Nemouroidean stonefly species (Insecta, Plecoptera)	Annals of the Entomological Society of America	Ann.Entomol.Soc.Am.	2000	March, 2000	93	2	251	253	"Behavioral Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	We studied the gut contents of adults of 12 stonefly species of the superfamily Nemouroidea, belonging to 3 different families: Nemouridae (4 species), Capniidae (2 species), and Leuctridae (6 species) from the Sierra Nevada Mountains in Spain (southern Iberian Peninsula). For each species, we describe the male and female diet. After determining and quantifying the different components, we deduced that feeding is important among adults in this superfamily, and that the diet is varied, with cyanolichens and cyanophyceae being prominent, and hyphae and spores of Ascomycetes sometimes eaten, whereas pollen is amply consumed by some spring or spring-summer species.	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0013-8746 ER	 	"de Figueroa, Jose Manuel Tierno; Sanchez-Ortega, Antonino; Departamento de Biologia Animal y Ecologia, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Granada, 18071, Granada, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"De Figueroa,Jose Manuel Tierno;Sanchez-Ortega,Antonino"	Imaginal feeding of certain Systellognathan stonefly species (Insecta: Plecoptera)	Annals of the Entomological Society of America	Ann.Entomol.Soc.Am.	1999	March, 1999	92	2	218	221	Nutrition & Dietetics	The digestive contents of adult males and females of 4 species of Systellognathan stoneflies were studied and analyzed: Perla marginata (Perlidae), Isoperla grammatica and I. nevada (Perlodidae) and Chloroperla nevada (Chloroperlidae). The study was conducted throughout the flight periods of these species in Sierra Nevada (Granada, Southern Iberian Peninsula), to determine possible variations in diet over time. The species of the families Chloroperlidae and Perlodidae fed during the adult stage, and the proportion of the different dietary components changed over the flight period in relation to the availability of such components. The data obtained for P. marginata, based on few specimens, indicated that feeding had little importance during the imaginal life.	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0013-8746 ER	 	"De Figueroa, Jose Manuel Tierno; Sanchez-Ortega, Antonino; Departamento de Biologia Animal y Ecologia, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Granada, 18071, Granada, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	De Worms,C. G. M.	Plebicula-Golgus and Other Butterflies in the Sierra-Nevada Spain July 1975	Entomologist's Record and Journal of Variation	Entomol.Rec.J.Var.	1976	 	88	3	59	63	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0013-8916 ER	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Dominguez Lozano,F.;Galicia Herbada,D.;Moreno Rivero,L.;Moreno Saiz,J. C.;Sainz Ollero,H."	Areas of high floristic endemism in Iberia and the Balearic islands: An approach to biodiversity conservation using narrow endemics	Belgian Journal of Entomology	Belg.J.Entomol.	2000	12-May-00	2	1	171	185	Biodiversity & Conservation	"The areas of highest concentration of narrow endemic vascular plants in Iberia and the Balearic Islands are presented. These areas were obtained from an analysis of a representative number of this kind of endemics and compared with those from previous studies of other plant groups and different methodologies. The analysis of the distribution patterns of this group of endemics reveals a very high concentration in the Baetic mountain range, of which the Sierra Nevada is particularly outstanding, and in the Balearic Islands. These results are consistent with previous studies that used other plant groups (dicotyledons, monocotyledons). However, narrow endemics are of relatively little importance in regions commonly regarded as being of high endemism (e.g., the Pyrenees and the Hercynic arc: siliceous ranges that limit the northern ""meseta"" towards the West and the South). The same geographical units are highlighted in relation to the endangered or vulnerable narrow endemic group, whereby the highest values are seen in the Sierra Nevada and the Balearics, while that of the Pyrenees is notably low. The combined analysis of the areas of narrow endemics and the network of protected areas reveals notable deficiencies in the protection of rare and threatened flora."	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	1374-5514 ER	 	"Dominguez Lozano, F.; Galicia Herbada, D.; Moreno Rivero, L.; Moreno Saiz, J. C.; Sainz Ollero, H.; Departamento de Biologia (Botanica), Universidad Autonoma de Madrid, Cantoblanco, Madrid, E-28049, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Dominguez Lozano,F.;Galicia Herbada,D.;Moreno Rivero,L.;Moreno Saiz,J. C.;Sainz Ollero,H."	Threatened plants in peninsular and Balearic Spain: A report based on the EU Habitats Directive	Biological Conservation	Biol.Conserv.	1996	 	76	2	123	133	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Biodiversity & Conservation;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Government & Law"	Following Appendix II from the EU Habitats Directive, the distribution and conservation status of 102 plant species in mainland Spain and Balearic Islands were studied. Distribution data from herbarium and bibliographic sources were collected. Field work for the 78 taxa with the most restricted distributions was undertaken in order to improve the knowledge of their populations, distribution limits and possible threats. Some extreme examples of species with very low number of individuals or very narrow areas of occupancy are pointed out. Natural causes and land development are stressed as the most important factors of threat. Changes in the assignment of IUCN categories are proposed for some plants. Using the distribution data of these 102 plants, graphical and ecological patterns are discussed, identifying Sierra Nevada as an enclave with the largest number of threatened taxa. Inconsistencies between previous Red Lists of endangered Spanish plants and the Habitats Directive are indicated, and some guidelines for plant conservation in Spain are proposed.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0006-3207 ER	 	"Moreno Saiz, J. C.; Departamento de Biologia, Universidad Autonoma de Madrid, Cantoblanco, 28049 Madrid, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Dufour,C.	The Identity of Tipula-Saginata Bergroth and Tipula-Obscuriventris Strobl and the Description of Tipula-Leo New-Species Sp. from the Sierra Nevada in Spain Diptera Tipulidae	Mitteilungen der Schweizerischen Entomologischen Gesellschaft	 	1991	 	64	01-Feb	81	91	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology"	Tipula (Emodotipula) leo sp. n. is described after a male and a female were caught along a stream running in a steep deciduous forest of the foothills of Sierra Nevada. The new species differs markedly from both other western palaearctic species of the subgenus Emodotipula which are revised and for which neotypes are designated.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0036-7575 ER	 	"DUFOUR C; MUSEE D'HISTOIRE NATURELLE, TERREAUX 14, CH-2000 NEUCHATEL, SWITZERLAND"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Dufour,C.	Tipula-Nevada New-Species and Tipula-Invenusta-Microinvenusta New-Subspecies from the Heights of Sierra Nevada in Spain Diptera Tipulidae	Mitteilungen der Schweizerischen Entomologischen Gesellschaft	 	1990	 	63	01-Feb	227	232	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology"	A description is given of the male of Tipula (Acutipula) nevada sp. n. This species is closely related to T. (A.) fulvipennis De Geer, T. (A.) niethammeri Mannheims and T. (A.) nigroantennata Savtshenko. Tipula (Savtshenkia) invenusta microinvenusta ssp. n. is described after a large series of males and females. A population of T. (S.) gimmerthali Lackschewitz with hemipterous females is recorded.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0036-7575 ER	 	"DUFOUR C; MUSEE HISTOIRE NATURELLE, TERREAUX 14, CH-2000 NEUCHATEL"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Dufour,C.;Oosterbroek,P."	Tipula-Vaillanti-Andalucia New-Subspecies from Southern Spain Diptera Tipulidae	Mitteilungen der Schweizerischen Entomologischen Gesellschaft	 	1990	 	63	01-Feb	233	236	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology;Reproductive Biology"	A description is presented of the male and female of Tipula (Vestiplex) vaillanti andalucia ssp. n. from southern Spain. T. (V.) vaillanti is placed in the virgatula group, the species of which are considered tertiary relicts. The ovipositor of the female, described here for the first time, does indeed show a number of primitive characters.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0036-7575 ER	 	"DUFOUR C; MUSEE HISTOIRE NATURELLE, TERREAUX 14, CH-2000 NEUCHATEL, SWITZERLAND"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Durrieu,Guy;Adhikari,Mahesh K."	Distribution of some groups of plant parasitic fungi in high mountains	"Bibliotheca Mycologica; Arctic and alpine mycology 3-4"	 	1993	 	150	 	23	31	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Infectious Diseases"	 	PT: S	 	Petrini,O. Laursen,G.A.	Bibliotheca Mycologica	 	 	 				 	"0067-8066; 3-443-59051-9 ER"	 	"Durrieu, Guy; Lab. Botanique et Forestier, Univ. Paul Sabatier, F-31062 Toulouse, France"	 	 	 	"DT: Article; Meeting"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Egea,J. M.;Llimona,X.;Casares,M."	Silicicolous Lichen Flora of the Highest Part of the Sierra-Nevada Spain	Collectanea Botanica (Barcelona)	 	1982	 	13	1	295	312	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0010-0730 ER	 	"EGEA J M; DEP BOT, FAC CIENCIAS, UNIV MURCIA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Meeting	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Evers,A. M. J.	Synopsis of the Monophylum of Attalus-Tristis Luc. with a Description of a New Species Attalus-Santiagoi New-Species in the Southwestern Palearctic 71st Contribution to the Knowledge of the Malachiidae	Entomologische Blaetter fuer Biologie und Systematik der Kaefer	 	1988	 	84	3	171	174	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0013-8835 ER	 	"EVERS A M J; KREFELD"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fernandez-Escudero,Ignacio;Tinaut,Alberto"	Foraging strategies and dietary preferences of a high mountain ant. (Hymenoptera: Formicidae)	Polish Journal of Ecology	Pol.J.Ecol.	1998	 	46	1	23	32	"Behavioral Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	The ant Proformica longiseta inhabits the dry zones of the Mediterranean high mountain. A generalist feeder, this species has a predilection for liquid food, and its solid diet changes over the active period according to the prey available. It forages alone without recruitment or cooperation. The abundance of repletes varies in parallel to the quantity of food collected, representing a solution for food shortage periods. The territories surrounding the nests are not clearly defined, but rather overlap with foraging areas of several ant nests.	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	1505-2249 ER	 	"Fernandez-Escudero, Ignacio; Tinaut, Alberto; Departamento de Biologia Aninal y Ecologia Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Granada, 18071, Granada, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fernandez-Rubio F;Gomez-Bustillo M R"	Rhopalocera and Zygaena-Spp of the Sierra-Nevada Spain	Alexanor	Alexanor	1972	 	7	8	339	345	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0002-5208 ER	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Fery,H.	Revision of a part of the memnonius-group of Hydroporus CLAIRVILLE, 1806 (Insecta: Coleoptera: Dytiscidae) with the description of nine new taxa, and notes on other species of the genus	Annalen des Naturhistorischen Museums in Wien Serie B Botanik und Zoologie	 	1999	Dec., 1999	101	 	217	269	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	"Within the memnonius-group of Hydroporus CLAIRVILLE, 1806, the H. memnonius-, H. melanarius-, and H. ferrugineus-subgroups are introduced. The species of the H. memnonius-subgroup are characterised by an angularity of the female gonocoxae. Besides Hydroporus memnonius NICOLAI, 1822, this subgroup includes the species of the newly defined H. normandi- and H. cantabricus-complexes. The members of the H. melanarius- and H. ferrugineus-subgroups lack this angularity of the gonocoxae. The senior subgroup contains Hydroporus melanarius STURM, 1835, Hydroporus longicornis SHARP, 1871, and the species of the new H. necopinatus-complex, from which Hydroporus necopinatus sp.n. is described after specimens which have been incorrectly regarded as Hydroporus cantabricus SHARP, 1882, in the past. The H. ferrugineus-subgroup includes Hydroporus ferrugineus STEPHENS, 1829, Hydroporus sanfilippoi GHIDINI, 1958, and Hydroporus obsoletus AUBE, 1838. These species are characterised by their pattern of the elytra, and a newly introduced feature: the corrugated membrane of the median lobe is extended until the apex, this being in contrast to all other members of the H. memnonius-group. A key to all species of the H. memnonius-group is presented, and their habitus and aedeagi are figured, but only the species of the H. normandi-, H. cantabricus- and H. necopinatus-complexes are treated in detail. Some additional notes on the other members are provided, as well as on species which might be mistaken for species of the H. memnonius-group because of their external resemblance. Of these Hydroporus longulus MULSANT and REY, 1861, and Hydroporus nevadensis SHARP, 1882, are treated in more detail. Descriptions, distributional data and some notes about the biology are presented. Females of Hydroporus brancoi ROCCHI, 1981, have been described with matt surface; now shiny females from Portugal and Spain can be recorded. Hydroporus normandi REGIMBART, 1903, is recorded from Portugal, Hydroporus hebaueri HENDRICH, 1990, from Bulgaria, Montenegro, Hungary, Albania, as well as from Turkey, and H. longulus from Luxembourg, all for the first time. Nine taxa are described as new: Hydroporus brancoi gredensis ssp.n. from central Spain and central Portugal (H. cantabricus-complex), Hydroporus lluci sp.n. from the Balearics, Hydroporus normandi ifnii ssp.n. from the High Atlas (Morocco), Hydroporus normandi ifranensis ssp.n. from the Moyen Atlas (Morocco), and Hydroporus normandi alhambrae ssp.n. from the Sierra Nevada in southern Spain (H. normandi-complex), Hydroporus lenkoranensis sp.n. from Azerbaijan, and Hydroporus necopinatus sp.n. with its three subspecies H. necopinatus necopinatus ssp.n. from Portugal and northern Spain, H. necopinatus robertorum ssp.n. from western France, and H. necopinatus roni ssp.n. from southern England (H. necopinatus-complex). Lectotypes are designated for the following species-level names: Hydroporus obsoletus AUBE, 1838, Hydroporus longulus MULSANT and REY, 1861, Hydroporus celatus CLARK, 1862, Hydroporus productus FAIRMAIRE, 1880, Hydroporus cantabricus SHARP, 1882, Hydroporus nevadensis SHARP, 1882, and Hydroporus normandi REGIMBART, 1903."	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0255-0105 ER	 	"Fery, H.; Raeuschstr. 73, D-13509, Berlin, Germany"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fuertes,Esther;Acon,Margarita"	Revision and chorology of genus Mnium Hedw. (Mniaceae, Musci) from the Iberian Peninsula	Studia Botanica	Stud.Bot.	1999	Junio, 1999(2000)	18	 	69	99	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	"The vouchers of genus Mnium Hedw. from the Iberian Peninsula, placed in the herbarium of Spain, Portugal, France and Finland and some private collections have been revised. Seven Mnium species are present in Spain: M. hornum Hedw., M. stellare Hedw., M. thomsonii Schimp., M. marginatum (Dicks.) P. Beauv., M. spinosum (Voit.) Schwaegr., M. spinulosum B.S. and G. and M. lycopodioides Schwaegr; two taxa in Portugal: M. bornum and M. stellare and three in Andorra: M. bornum, M. lycopodioides and M. thomsonii. M. marginatum var. riparium (Mitt.) Husn. is excluded from Spanish flora; M. lycopodioides and M. orthorrhynchum Br. eur., both of them from Portugal and M. marginatum from Andorra. All species are mesophytic and sciophytic, for this reason they are more frequent in the mountainous areas of the northern half of the Peninsula, with a humid-perhumid ombroclimate (annual average precipitation exceeds 1000 mm); this rainfall is favorable for they development, slowly decreasing its presence from North to South and from West to East of the Peninsula, in the same way the mean annual precipitation decrease and the summers are dryers. M. hornum is the most common species, it is located through septentrional half of the Iberian Peninsula, begins to be rare in the south of Spain (Cadiz province); M. stellare is also common in the woodlands of the mountains of Northern and Central of Spain, being rare in Portugal; M. marginatum, is distributed in the North of Spain, with a southern disjunction area in the Sierra del Calar del Mundo (Albacete) and Sierra Nevada (Granada); M. thomsonii, usually grows on calcareous rocks in the montane and subalpine level of the Picos de Europa, Montes Vascos and Pyrenees (Spain and Andorra) between 800-2400 m altitude; M. lycopodioides Schwaegr., it prefers the acidic and wet habitats of the Eurosiberian region, having its southern limit in the Sierra de La Demanda (La Rioja); M. spinosum is little frecuent, it grows on wet and acidic rocks, it occurs in the Astur-Galaico and Oriental Pyrenes sectors of the Eurosiberian region from Spain; M. spinulosum is very rare and it is restricted to the East Pyrenees (Lerida), Sierra de Urbasa and Articuza (Navarra) and Tierra de Cameros (La Rioja). The SEM photographs spores and the inner surface exostome teeth of M. hornum, M. marginatum, M. thomsonii, M. spinosum and M. spinulosum are reported. Distribution maps and the ecology of each species are given."	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0211-9714 ER	 	"Fuertes, Esther; Departamento de Biologia Vegetal I. Facultad de Biologia, Universidad Complutense, 28040, Madrid, Spain"	 	 	 	"DT: Article; LT: Taxonomic Key"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Fuertes,Esther;Acon,Margarita;Olivan,Gisela"	Sanionia (Bryopsida, amblystegiaceae) in the Iberian Peninsula. Revision and biogeograpby	Studia Botanica	Stud.Bot.	2004	 	23	 	27	41	"Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Biodiversity & Conservation"	"The genus Sanionia Loeske is revised for the Iberian Peninsula, based on specimens kept in the main Spanish, French and Portuguese herbaria. The presence of Sanionia uncinata (Hedw.) Loeske in the Iberian Peninsula is confirmed. All the revised specimens previously determined as Sanionia uncinata var. plumulosum Schimp., S. uncinata fo. plumulosa Schimp. (both non-existent herbarium combinations for the name Hypnum uncinatum var. plumulosum Schimp.), Hypnum uncinatum Hedw. var. aduncum (non-existent herbarium combination), Drepanocladus aduncus var. falcatus (Renauld) Renauld and Drepanocladus uncinatus var. plumosus (Schimp.) Warnst. have been re-identified as Sanionia uncinata.S. uncinata is common in the high mountains of the Eurosiberian and Mediterranean Region of the northern and central part of the Iberian Peninsula in four differentiated areas: 1) Cordillera Cantabrica, 2) Pyrenees, 3) Sistema Central and 4) Sistema Iberico (from Sierra de La Demanda to el Maestrazgo), being rare in the south of Spain (Sierra Nevada). It occurs in mesophytic habitats with hyperhumide-humide ombroclimate (mean annual rainfall > 1.200 mm), preferring acid substrata; it grows on rocks, trunks, soils and grasslands around of subalpine-alpine lakes, with anthropogenic influence (Nardetea strictae communities). S. uncinata is proposed as rare species (R) in Portugal.A distribution map, iconography, spores and peristome SEM microphotographs are provided."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0211-9714 ER	 	"Fuertes, Esther; Univ Complutense Madrid, Fac Biol, Dept Biol Vegetal 1, E-28040 Madrid, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	Sanionia (Bryopsida, amblystegiaceae) en la Peninsula Iberica. Revision y biogeografia	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gamisans,J.;Romero,A. T.;Morales,C."	The Corsican Nevadan Spain France Phleum 2 Little Known Taxa	Candollea	Candollea	1983	 	38	2	639	660	"Anatomy & Morphology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	A taxonomic and biosystematic study of the Phleum of the Sierra Nevada [Spain], Corsica [France] and the Atlas Mountains [Morocco] was conducted using both living material and material in herbaria. A comparative study was also conducted using P. alpinum alpinum, P. a. rhaeticum, P. pratense pratense and P. p. bertolini. The Corsican-Nevadan Phleum constituted P. brachystachyum brachystachyum stat. et ssp. nov. (P. pratense var. brachystachyum, Salis 1833) found in the Corsican mountains and P. brachystachyum abbreviatum comb. et stat. nov. (P. p. var. abbreviatum, Boissier, 1844), found in the Sierra Nevada. P. alpinum trabutii requires further study with living material, appearing to be more similar to P. pratense than to P. brachystachyum.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0373-2967 ER	 	"GAMISANS J; LABORATOIRE DE BOTANIQUE ET ECOLOGIE MEDITERRANEENNE, FACULTE DES SCIENCES DE ST-JEROME, F-13 397 MARSEILLE CEDEX 13"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Garrido-Garcia,J. A.	New altitude record for Chiroptera in Europe	Myotis	 	1999	March, 1999	37	 	103	 	Behavioral Sciences	One male bat (Hypsugo savii) was caught in the Sierra Nevada mountains (Southern Spain, 3300 m above sea level), breaking the European altitude record for Chiroptera.	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0580-3896 ER	 	"Garrido-Garcia, J. A.; C/Padre Llanos 3, Bajo A., 18500, Guadix, Granada, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gaston,Fco Javier;Redondo,Victor M."	Idaea davidi sp n. from Sierra Nevada (Andalusia, Spain) (Lepidoptera: Geometridae, Sterrhinae)	Boletin de la S.E.A.	 	2005	Apr-05	 	36	51	55	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	Idaea davidi sp. n. is described from Sierra Nevada and northern mountains of Granada (Andalusia, Spain) and compared to the closely related species Idaea humiliata (Hufnagel, 1767).	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1134-6094 ER	 	"Gaston, Fco. Javier; Zaragoza 50001, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	Idaea davidi sp. n. de Sierra Nevada (Andalucia, Espana) (Lepidoptera: Geometridae, Sterrhinae)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Gervais,C.	Hybridization Tests in Perennial Spanish Oats Genus Helictotrichon from the Helictotrichon-Filifolium Helictotrichon-Sarracenorum Complex	Bulletin de la Societe Neuchateloise des Sciences Naturelles	Bull.Soc.Neuchatel.Sci.Nat.	1977	 	100	 	137	142	"Agriculture;Cell Biology;Genetics & Heredity"	"The hybridization of 2 spp. of Helictotrichon from southeast Spain, belonging to the H. sarracenorum-H. filifolium complex is reported. These species are a diploid H. sarracenorum (Gdgr) Holub from Sierra Nevada and an aneuploid H. filifolium (Lag.) Henr. (2n = 97) from Sierra del Pozo; the resulting hybrid possesses 2n = 55 + 4B chromosomes. This hybrid, which links the ends of a chain of polyploids (2n = 14, 28, 70, 84, 98), is an indication of close relationships among all these taxa."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0366-3469 ER	 	"GERVAIS C; COMPLEXE SCI D-1-76, QUEBEC, QUE G1P 3W8, CAN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gil,J. A.;Varo,J."	Bryo Sociologic Study of Rheophilic Communities of the Sierra-Nevada Spain	Cryptogamie Bryologie Lichenologie	 	1981	 	2	4	423	440	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	The rheophyllic associations found are: Scapanietum undulatae Schwickerath, Dichodontietum pellucidi v. Huebschmann, Fontinaleto-Pachyfissidentetum grandifrondis W. Koch, to be attached to the class Platyhypnidio-Fontinaletea Philiippi. Alpine rheophilic groups of the class Hygrohypnetea Huebschmann were also studied, with the associations Schistidio-Hygrohypnetum dilatati Geissler and Solenostomo-Hygrohypnetum Geissler.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0181-1576 ER	 	"GIL J A; DEP BOTANICA, FAC CIENCIAS, UNIV GRANADA, ESPANA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gomez,Lorena;Zamora,Regino;Maraa Gomez,Jose"	Limitations to the regeneration of Acer granatense in the Mediterranean mountains: A multi-scale approach.	Ecological Society of America Annual Meeting Abstracts	 	2002	 	87	 	356	 	"Biodiversity & Conservation;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	 	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	 	 	"Gomez, Lorena; Zamora, Regino; Maraa Gomez, Jose; University of Granada, Granada, Granada, Spain"	 	 	 	"DT: Meeting; LT: Meeting Abstract"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gonzalez,M. A.;Botosaneanu,L."	Study of 3 Hydropsyche-Spp from Spain Described by F. Schmid Insecta Trichoptera	Bulletin Zoologisch Museum Universiteit van Amsterdam	 	1985	 	10	13	89	95	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology"	"Thee three species of the difficult Hydropsyche instabilis-group described by F. Schmid (1952) from the Iberian peninsula are revised, based on the types. H. hibera proved to be a synonym of H. instabilis (Curtis); H. infernale (here emended to infernalis) and H. ambigua (originally described as dubia) are good species, the first apparently closely related to H. siltalai Dohler, the second extremely near to H. tenuis Navas. Notes on the known distribution in Spain of the three species are added (H. instabilis and H. ambigua are widely distributed; H. infernalis is known from the Sierra Nevada only)."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0165-9464 ER	 	"GONZALEZ M A; DEP ZOOL, FAC BIOL, UNIV SANTIAGO COMPOSTELA, ESPANA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gonzalez-Megias,Adela;Sanchez-Pinero,Francisco;Gomez,Jose M."	Spatial autocorrelation affects regional population dynamic of the beetle Timarcha lugens	Ecological Society of America Annual Meeting Abstracts	 	2001	 	86	 	283	 	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics ER	 	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	 	 	"Gonzalez-Megias, Adela; Sanchez-Pinero, Francisco; Gomez, Jose M.; University of Granada, Granada, Spain"	 	 	 	"DT: Meeting; LT: Meeting Abstract"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"G-Toth,L.;Carrillo,P.;Cruz-Pizarro,L."	Respiratory electron transport system (ETS)-activity of the plankton and biofilm in the high-mountain lake La Caldera (Sierra Nevada, Spain)	Archiv fuer Hydrobiologie	Arch.Hydrobiol.	1995	 	135	1	65	78	"Biochemistry & Molecular Biology;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Endocrinology & Metabolism"	Quantity and ETS-activity of the plankton and those of the biofilm in the high-mountain lake La Caldera (altitude: 3040 m a.s.l.) were studied in August-September, 1992 and 1993. The quantity of the biofilm. covering the bed stones sometimes reached 1 kg wet mass m-1. Its ETS-activity exceeded by 2.5-5 times, that of the phytoplankton and, by 8.33-22 times, that of the zooplankton, projecting 1 m-2 surface area of the lake. The substrate kinetics of its ETS suggested eucaryotic property. The plankton concentrated in the deeper water in day time and elevated to the upper water layers by evenings. The daily respiratory carbon loss of the zooplankton, estimated from the ETS-activity was equivalent with 34-38% of the planktonic primary production. The results indicated that the metabolically most active zone was forced to the profound, probably by the intensive UV-b radiation.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0003-9136 ER	 	"G-Toth, L.; Balaton Limnol. Res. Inst., Hungarian Acad. Sci., H-8237 Tihany, Hungary"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Conference Proceedings	Guisasola,I.	Mayflies and Stoneflies from the Rio Monachil Sierra Nevada Spain Ephemeroptera and Plecoptera	 	 	1991	July 27-30, 1989	 	 	529	538	"Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology;Pathology;Physiology;Public, Environmental & Occupational Health;Toxicology"	 	PT: B	 	Alba-Tercedor,J. and A. Sanchez-Ortega	"Overview and Strategies of Ephemeroptera and Plecoptera; Vith International Ephemeroptera Conference"	Granada, Spain, July 24-28, 1989 and the Xth International Symposium on Plecoptera, Granada, Spain	Sandhill Crane Press, Inc.	Gainesville, Florida, Usa. Illus				 	1-877743-08-9 ER	 	"ALBA-TERCEDOR J; DEPARTAMENTO DE BIOLOGIA ANIM, ECOLOGIA GENETICA, FACULTAD DE CIENCIAS, UNIVERSIDAD DE GRANADA, 18071 GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	"DT: Book; Meeting"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Gutierrez Larena,B.;Fuertes Aguilar,J.;Nieto Feliner,G."	Glacial-induced altitudinal migrations in Armeria (Plumbaginaceae) inferred from patterns of chloroplast DNA haplotype sharing	Molecular ecology	Mol.Ecol.	2002	October, 2002	11	10	1965	1974	Genetics & Heredity	"In contrast to northern European areas where large-scale migrations occurred to recolonize territories after glacial periods, species in southern regions survived and diverged without large geographical displacements. As a result of the importance of orography in much of the southern areas, such displacements must have involved populations ascending or descending mountains. The present study provides support for glacial-induced altitudinal migrations from chloroplast phylogeographic patterns in Armeria (Plumbaginaceae) in southeast Spain. One hundred and five sequences of the trnL-F spacer were obtained from seven species. Fifteen different haplotypes were recognized, their genealogy was inferred, and associations with geography were explored using nested clade analysis. Seven instances were detected in which the same haplotype is shared by two or three species within a particular massif. In all the cases, at least one of the species involved displayed different haplotypes in other areas; in most, the haplotype shared is predominant either in one of the species involved or in the massif. These patterns of haplotype sharing strongly suggest horizontal transfer between species. In one of the massifs (Sierra Nevada) the three species involved in haplotype sharing (A. splendens, A. filicaulis ssp. nevadensis, A. villosa ssp. bernisii) occur at markedly different altitudinal belts. It is argued that altitudinal migrations within the contraction-expansion model provide the best explanation for the current pattern, and that at least in one case it resulted in the formation of a new hybrid taxon, A. filicaulis ssp. nevadensis."	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0962-1083	 	"Nieto Feliner, G.; CSIC, Real Jardin Botanico, Plaza de Murillo 2, 28014, Madrid, Spain; nieto@ma-rjb.csic.es"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	10.1046/j.1365-294X.2002.01594.x ER	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Haeder,Donat-P;Lebert,Michael;Marangoni,Roberto;Colombetti,Giuliano"	ELDONET: European Light Dosimeter Network hardware and software	Journal of Photochemistry and Photobiology B Biology	 	1999	Sept.-Oct., 1999	52	01-Mar	51	58	Physics	A three-channel dosimeter has been developed to measure solar radiation in the UV-B (280-315 nm), UV-A (315-400 nm) and PAR (400-700 nm) wavelength bands. A total of 31 instruments have been installed in Europe from Abisko in Northern Sweden to Gran Canaria, covering most light-climate zones. In addition, instruments are installed in India, Africa, New Zealand and South America. Seven of the instruments have been installed under water (each in conjunction with a terrestrial instrument), and two instruments are located in high mountain locations (Zugspitze, Germany and Sierra Nevada, Spain). The instruments use an integrating Ulbricht sphere and silicon photodiodes in combination with custom-made filters. All instruments are carefully calibrated to ensure a high standard of quality control and documentation. The software records all data (three light channels, external and internal temperature and depth for the underwater instruments) at 1 min intervals, displays them on a PC, stores the data on disk and transmits the data to the central server in Pisa (http://power.ib.pi.cnr.it:80/eldonet), where all available data can be seen in graphical form and downloaded as ASCII files.	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	1011-1344 ER	 	"Haeder, Donat-P.; Institut fuer Botanik und Pharmazeutische Biologie, Friedrich-Alexander-Universitaet, Staudtstrasse 5, D-91058, Erlangen, Germany"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Haenni J-P	Note on the Presence of Chorisops-Tunisiae New-Record Beck. Diptera Stratiomyidae in Europe	Bulletin de la Societe Neuchateloise des Sciences Naturelles	Bull.Soc.Neuchatel.Sci.Nat.	1990	 	113	 	285	288	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology"	Ch. tunisiae (Beck.) is reported for the first time in Europe from two localities in southern Spain. New diagnostic characters for this species are figured.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0366-3469 ER	 	"HAENNI J-P; MUSEE D'HISTOIRE NATURELLE, TERREAUX 14, CH-2000 NEUCHATEL, SUISSE"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Henry,Jean-Paul;Magniez,Guy"	Stygobitic Isopoda Aselloidea from Spain, III - The genus Proasellus: B - Anophtalmous species.	Beaufortia	Beaufortia	2003	November 25, 2003	53	6	129	157	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	Study of anophthalmus and unpigmented Proasellus samples, collected in subterranean waters of Spain, mainly by J. Notenboom & I. Meijers (1983, 1984, 1985, 1986), N. Gourbault, E Lescher-Moutoue & R. Rouch (1976, 1977, 1978) and P. van den Hurk & R. Leys (1985). Description of new species of the 'beticus-meridianus' group: P. malagensis n. sp. (Malaga), P. granadensis n. sp. (Granada), P. meijersae n. sp. (Albacete), P. soriensis (Soria), P. oviedensis (Oviedo), and of the 'ortizi' group: P. grafi (Santander), P. stocki (Santander), P. alavensis (Alava), P. navarrensis (Navarra), P. vizcayensis (Vizcaya), and P. guipuzcoensis (Guipuzcoa). The first group is mainly present in the Sierra Nevada environment and the Betic region (where remains of its stygophilic root P. beticus still exist), the second in the Vasco-Cantabrian region (where remain some relict populations of its root forms: P. ortizi, P. aragonensis, and P. ebrensis). Iberian species are generally endemic, either from the alluvial aquifer of a river (generally small or minute species), or from the aquifer of a karstic system (generally large epibenthic species). In contrast to all other taxa, P. lescherae is widely scattered in phreatic aquifers of the Ebro basin and adjacent rivers and typical of this large hydrographic system. All species, especially those of the 'ortizi' group, are strongly related to those of North Africa and the Aquitanian Basin. These countries together constitute a single biogeographic area. The Iberian Aselloidea fauna is the most interesting and diversified of the Ancient World. It includes a rich background of Stenasellidae species (ancient autochthonous thalassoid stocks, characteristic of the Meseta and Catalonia plates), then occurred the settlement by Atlantic' Asellidae lineages (Synasellus, Bragasellus), then the settlement by old surface Proasellus species (of Mediterranean origin), that gave birth to bushes of stygobitic taxa and finally the settlement of the recent perimediterranean Proasellus coxalis. But this fauna is still waiting for the settlement by the recent eastern invader Asellus aquaticus, which is currently invading the French Aquitanian Basin.	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0067-4745 ER	 	"Henry, Jean-Paul; Magniez, Guy; Biologie Animale et Generale, Universite de Bourgogne, 6, Bd. Gabriel, 21000, Dijon, France"	 	 	 	DT: Article	Isopodes aselloides stygobies d'espagne, III - le genre Proasellus: B - especes anophtalmes.	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Hinz,W.;Kuiper,J. G. J.;Biedermann,W."	On the Fauna of Pisidium-Spp and Other Freshwater Molluscs in the Province of Granada South Spain	Malakologische Abhandlungen (Dresden)	 	1988	 	13	Sep-17	119	136	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology;Physiology"	In the province of Granada, Spain, 300,000 molluscs were collected in 81 out of 86 explored localities. The bivalves exclusively belong to the genus Pisidium viz. casertanum and personatum, both very common, as well as a few specimens of subtruncatum, milium and nitidum, the latter two only in the swamps south of Padul. The earlier reported (ALONSO, 1975) occurrence of hibernicum, obtusale, pseudosphaerium and tenuilineatum is obviously due to incorrect identifications. Until evidence is available, these four species have to be struck off from the faunal list of Granada. The snails belong to 20 taxa. At most 10 species of molluscs have been found living in association. In waters of about 3,000 m above sea level only P. casertanum occurs. A slightly elongated form of this species lives in the system of the Rio Cacin, a striated one in the brooks of the eastern Sierra Nevada.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0070-7260 ER	 	"HINZ W; UNIV-GESAMTHOCHSCHULE DUISBURG, FACHBEREICH 6"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Huertas,F.;Linares,J."	The Soils of the Barranco-Hondo Spain 2. Geochemical Study	Anales de Edafologia y Agrobiologia	 	1979	 	38	09-Oct	1555	1572	Agriculture	The reactions of chemical weathering were identified and quantified in a small watershed of Sierra Nevada. The A horizon shows mineralogical variations with respect to the parent rock. In the other horizons the primary minerals are distributed among the different fractions: quartz and albite in the coarse sizes, while phyllosilicates are concentrated in the fine fractions. Natural weathering on an annual basis produces 6042 kg of albite, 739 kg of muscovite, 3649 kg of hornblende, 12,279 kg of dolomite and 8905 kg of calcite. The mean age of the soils, calculated from the loss of albite, is 4429 .+-. 980 yr.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0365-1797 ER	 	"DELGADO CALVO-FLORES R; ESTACION EXP ZAIDIN, CSIC GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Jimenez Guirado,D.	Soil Nematodes in the Sierra-Nevada of Granada Spain and Adjacent Valleys 1. Antecedents and Catalog of Genera and Species Previously Cited	Cuadernos de Ciencias Biologicas Universidad de Granada	 	1976	 	5	 	35	46	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Physiology ER"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	 	 	"JIMENEZ GUIRADO D; DEP ZOOL, FAC CIENC, UNIV GRANADA, GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Jimenez Guirado,D.	Soil Nematodes in the Sierra-Nevada of Granada Spain and Adjacent Valleys 2. Results of a Preliminary Sampling	Cuadernos de Ciencias Biologicas Universidad de Granada	 	1976	 	5	 	47	52	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	 	 	"JIMENEZ GUIRADO D; DEP ZOOL, FAC CIENC, UNIV GRANADA, GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Jimenez-Guirado D	Species of Dorylaimus Dujardin 1845 Nematoda from Southern Spain	Miscellania Zoologica (Barcelona)	 	1988	 	12	 	33	40	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology;Physiology"	Since 1972 a large number of freshwater samples was collected in the basin of the River Guadalquivir (Southern Spain) from the marshes in the estuary to the high mountains of Sierra Nevada. A total of 60 localities were studied. Most of the nematode specimens examined belong to the genus Dorylaimus Dujardin, 1845 and their study has shown the presence of three known and one new species. D. asymphydorus Andrassy, 1979 is very frequent in the mud at the bottom, D. stagnalis Dujardin, 1845 is associated with muddy and sandy sediments, D. helveticus Steiner, 1919 is found in peat-moss, lakes and streams of Sierra Nevada at heights between 2000 and 3000 m and D. macrosoma sp. n. is restricted to very particular habitats and localities. It is recognized by the body length (L = 5.5-9.1 mm), odontostyle 71-89 .mu.m long and by the great number (72-86) of ventromedian contiguous supplements in the male.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0211-6529 ER	 	"JIMENEZ-GUIRADO D; DEP BIOL ANIM, FAC CIENCIAS, UNIV CORDOBA, AVDA SAN ALBERTO MAGNO S/N, 14004 CORDOBA, ESPANA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Jutzeler,David;De Bros,Emmanuel"	Observations in nature and breeding of Pseudochazara hippolyte williamsi (Romei, 1927) and Erebia hispania hispania (Butler, 1868) from Sierra Nevada (Andalusia, southern Spain) (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae, Satyrinae)	Linneana Belgica	Linn.Belg.	1995	 	15	4	173	181	"Physiology;Developmental Biology;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Dermatology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	In July of 1994, endemic species of Pseudochazara hippolyte williamsi and Erebia hispania hispania were captured from Sierra Nevada, Spain, in order to breed them and follow the development of the caterpillars. Both species were raised until the chrysalis phase and annotated observations were recorded. Pseudochazara hippolyte williamsi hibernated in the fourth larval stage (L4). There were great losses during their raising: of 90 eggs in the beginning, only one chrysalis was obtained. In the case of Erebia hispania hispania, the caterpillars hibernate in the stages L2 or L3. In the fourth stage (L4), a progressive change in color was observed, passing from brown to grayish-green or green. The pure green individuals were thought to be females. More than 20 chrysalises were obtained. The development of both species took one year.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0024-4090 ER	 	"Jutzeler, David; Rainstr. 4, CH-8307 Effretikon, Switzerland"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Kallies,Axel	Revision of the south-western Palaearctic species of Synansphecia (Sesiidae)	Nota Lepidopterologica	Nota Lepidopterol.	1999	 	22	2	82	114	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	The type specimens of Synansphecia atlantis (Schwingenschuss, 1935), S. borreyi (Le Cerf, 1922), S. powelli (Le Cerf, 1916) and S. aistleitneri Spatenka, 1992 have been studied and the species are revised and redescribed in detail. The taxon powelli is transferred back to Chamaesphecia, its original combination. Two new species, S. hispanica sp. n. and S. maroccana sp. n., are described from Spain and from Morocco, respectively. A key to the Palaearctic species of the S. triannuliformis and S. muscaeformis group is presented. S. atlantis is known only from the High Atlas Mts in Morocco from altitudes between 2000 and 2900 m. Its host plant is supposed to be an Armeria species (Plumbaginaceae). It is closely related and similar to S. borreyi and S. koschwitzi. S. borreyi is known from different localities in Morocco from about 400 m up to 2200 m. Host plants are Limonium species (Plumbaginaceae). S. hispanica sp. n. is represented in many collections but usually has been confused with S. atlantis. It is widely distributed in Spain and is also found in southern France. It occurs from the coastline up to more than 2000 m in the Sierra Nevada. It is closely related to S. maroccana sp. n. and S. triannuliformis (Freyer, 1845). The host plants are various Rumex species (Polygonaceae). S. maroccana sp. n. is widely distributed in the Atlas Mts in Morocco and found at altitudes between 1600 and 2700 m. The host plant is a Rumex species (Polygonaceae). Chamaesphecia powelli comb. rev. was known for certain from the type locality in Algeria only. Recently, it has also been found in the High Atlas Mts in Morocco. It was reared from the roots of a Nepeta species (Lamiaceae). Additionally, S. affinis erodiiphaga (Dumont, 1922) is recorded from Morocco and southern Spain for the first time.	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0342-7536 ER	 	"Kallies, Axel; Ploener Str. 13, D-19057, Schwerin, Germany"	 	 	 	"DT: Article; LT: Taxonomic Key"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Lacourt,J.	Notes on the Atra Group of the Genus Tenthredo Hymenoptera Tenthridinidae with a Description of 2 New Taxa	Nouvelle Revue d'Entomologie	Nouv.Rev.Entomol.	1980	 	10	2	189	200	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology"	T. asperrima sp. nov. and T. atra nevadensis ssp. nov. are described. A key is provided, including T. asperrima, T. a. nevadensis, T. a. atra L. and T. ignobilis Klug.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0374-9797 ER	 	"LACOURT J; BANDEVILLE, SAINT-CYR-SOUS-DOURDAN, 91410 DOURDAN, FR, FRANCE"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Laville,H.	The Chironomids Diptera of several High Altitude Lagunas of the Sierra-Nevada Granada Spain	Annales de Limnologie	Ann.Limnol.	1986	 	22	1	53	64	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Anatomy & Morphology"	Thirteen species, identified from 24 lagunas at very high altitude (2700-3200 m) in the Sierra Nevada, increases to 35 the number of chironomid species recorded in the mountain area of Southern Spain. Four species are new for the Iberian peninsula: [Acricotopus lucens, Metriocnemus ursinus, Micropsectra coracina, Micropsectra recurvata]. The pupal exuviae of Micropsectra coracina (K.) is described.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0003-4088 ER	 	"LAVILLE H; LAB D'HYDROBIOL, UA 695 CNRS, UNIV PAUL SABATIER, 118, ROUTE DE NARBONNE, 31062 TOULOUSE CEDEX, FRANCE"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Leraut,P.	Study of Scopariineae Lepidoptera Pyralidae 2 New Taxa from the Mediterranean Region	Alexanor	Alexanor	1981	 	12	3	117	120	"Anatomy & Morphology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	Data were given for 2 new subspecies from the Mediterranean region of Europe: Scoparia pyralella klimeschi and Eudonia delunella amicula.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0002-5208 ER	 	"LERAUT P; 76, AVE GABRIEL-PERI, F-94100 SAINT-MAUR-DES-FOSSES"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Loeffler,H.	Harpacticoids Crustacea Copepoda of the Mountain Waters in Andalusia Sierra-Nevada Spain	Oesterreichische Akademie der Wissenschaften Mathematisch-Naturwissenschaftliche Klasse Sitzungsberichte Abteilung I	 	1973	 	181	07-Oct	191	195	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0029-8808 ER	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Lorite Moreno,Juan;Navarro Reyes,Francisco Bruno;Valle Tendero,Francisco"	New records for the vascular flora of Sierra Nevada (Almeria): The Murciano-almeriense element	Acta Botanica Malacitana	 	1998	 	23	0	256	259	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	 	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-9506 ER	 	"Lorite Moreno, Juan; Navarro Reyes, Francisco Bruno; Valle Tendero, Francisco; Dpto. Biologia Vegetal, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Granada, Granada, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Lorite,Juan;Algarra,Jose Antonio;Navarro,Francisco Bruno;Salazar,Carlos"	Chorological notes on the vascular flora of Sierra Nevada, Almeria, Spain	Studia Botanica	Stud.Bot.	1999	Junio, 1999(2000)	18	 	153	156	"Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	 	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0211-9714 ER	 	"Lorite, Juan; Algarra, Jose Antonio; Navarro, Francisco Bruno; Dpto. Biologia Vegetal, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Granada, 18001, Granada, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Lorite,Juan;Ruiz Girela,Mario;Donaire,Francisco"	Data on endemic, rare or threatened flora of Sierra Nevada (SE. Spain)	Acta Botanica Malacitana	 	2005	 	30	 	237	239	"Biodiversity & Conservation;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-9506 ER	 	"Lorite, Juan; Univ Granada, Fac Ciencias, Dept Bot, CSevero Ochoa S-N, E-18071 Granada, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	Datos sobre flora endemica, rara o amenazada de Sierra Nevada (SE. Espana)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Lorite,Juan;Valle,Francisco;Ruiz Polo,Nieves"	Cartography and vegetation dynamics in the Sierra Nevada, Almeria (s.e. Spain)	Lagascalia	 	1997	 	19	01-Feb	601	608	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	 	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-7708 ER	 	Dep. Biol. Veg., Fac. Ciencias, Univ. Granada, C. Severo Ochoa s/n, 18001 Granada, Spain	 	 	 	"DT: Meeting; LT: Meeting Paper"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Losa Quintana,J. M.;Perez Raya,F."	The Rupicolous Communities of the Malacitano-Almijarense Sector of Sierra Nevada Granada Spain	Boletin de la Real Sociedad Espanola de Historia Natural Seccion Biologica	 	1986	 	81	01-Apr	51	60	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	We have studied the ecology and phytosociology of the rupicolous communities in the Malacitano-Almijarense sector of Sierra Nevada. We also describe the following syntaxa: Erodio-Saxifragetum ecrioblastae as. nova, Saxifrago-Teucrietum rotundifoliae, erodietosum daucoidis subas, nova and Campanulo-Phagnaletum, teucrietosum rotundifoliae subas, nova.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0366-3272 ER	 	"LOSA QUINTANA J M; DEP BOTANICA, FAC FARM, UNIV GRANADA, 18071 GRANADA, GRENADA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Lozez-Colon,Jose Ignacio	New data on Lucanidae and Melolonthidae from the Sierra Nevada (Iberian Peninsula) (Coleoptera)	Nouvelle Revue d'Entomologie	Nouv.Rev.Entomol.	1992	 	9	1	89	90	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0374-9797 ER	 	Uruguay 27, E-28016 Madrid, Spain	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Lyneborg,L.	Some Muscidae from Southern Spain with Descriptions of 6 New Species Insecta Diptera	Steenstrupia	Steenstrupia	1970	 	1	6	29	54	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0375-2909 ER	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Macmillan,Craig W.;Costello,Michael J."	A protocol for using a mite brushing machine for estimating densities of Willamette mite on grapes	American Journal of Enology and Viticulture	Am.J.Enol.Vitic.	2005	 	56	3	293A	 	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Instruments & Instrumentation;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Agriculture"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0002-9254 ER	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Meeting	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Martin,J.;Garcia-Barros,E.;Gurrea,P.;Lucianez,M. J.;Munguira,M. L.;Sanz,M. J.;Simon,J. C."	High endemism areas in the Iberian Peninsula	Belgian Journal of Entomology	Belg.J.Entomol.	2000	12-May-00	2	1	47	57	"Biodiversity & Conservation;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	A comparison between different groups of organisms in the Iberian Peninsula was made to establish and analyse the high endemism areas and patterns of endemism within this territory. The analysis was based on distribution maps of endemic species of the following groups: monocotiledons (Monocotyledoneae), amphibians (Amphibia) and reptiles (Reptilia), springtails (Hexapoda, Collembola), weevils (Coleoptera, Curculionoidea) and butterflies and moths (Lepidoptera, Papilionoidea and Noctuidae). Distribution data were taken from published records and from the database 'Endemica' that was built for this project. Geographic distributions for each group were represented using UTM maps with a 100 km grid. The areas with a highest concentration of endemic species generally fit to mountain areas. However, each group has its own density pattern of endemic species, and that of amphibians and reptiles is the most distinct when compared with the rest. Relevant areas with a high concentration of endemic species include the Western Pyrenees, Cantabrian Mountains, Macizo Galaico, Sistema Central and Cordillera Penibetica, among which Sierra Nevada is of special interest.	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	1374-5514 ER	 	"Martin, J.; Garcia-Barros, E.; Gurrea, P.; Lucianez, M. J.; Munguira, M. L.; Simon, J. C.; Departamento de Biologia, Universidad Autonoma de Madrid, Cantoblanco, Madrid, E-28049, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Martin,J.;Gurrea,P."	Speciation areas in Spain and Portugal	Boletin de la Asociacion Espanola de Entomologia	Bol.Asoc.Esp.Entomol.	1999	June, 1999	23	01-Feb	83	103	"Biodiversity & Conservation;Evolutionary Biology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	A revisison of the publications of the Asociacion espanola de Entomologia and the Sociedade portuguesa de Entomologia was made to spot the areas where new species were described. We used this information to define the areas with a high level of speciation (endemicity). From the new species described only the ones from Ibero-Balearic and Macaronesian areas were taken into account (Iberian Peninsula and Balearic, Canarian and Azores Islands). The new species cover a wide range of taxonomic groups and geographic locations. During the 20 years covered by our study species were described from most of the insects orders and also other groups within the Hexapoda, Uniramia, Crustacea and Chelicerata. Most of the descriptions are based on material collected recently, and only a few use older material from museums or other research institutions. The description of new species is not restricted to typical high endemicity areas like the Pyrenees, Sierra Nevada, Azores or the Canary Islands, but includes many localities from most of the considered areas. The place where specialists are based has great importance in the biodiversity knowledge of a given geographic area.	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-8984 ER	 	"Martin, J.; Gurrea, P.; Departamento de Biologia, Universidad Autonoma de Madrid, 28049, Madrid, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Martinez Rica,J. P.	Diversity of alpine vertebrates in the Pyrenees and Sierra Nevada, Spain.	Alpine diversity in Europe	 	2003	 	Volume 167	 	367	375	"Biodiversity & Conservation;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	 	PT: S ME: print	 	Nagy, Laszlo Grabherr, Georg Koerner, Christian Thompson,Desmond B.A.	Ecological Studies	 	 	 				 	"0070-8356 (ISSN print); 3-540-00108-5 (cloth) ER"	 	"Martinez Rica, J. P.; Instituto Pirenaico de Ecologia, Avda. Montanana, 177, 50080, Zaragoza, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Book Chapter	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Martinez,R.	Seasonal Variation of Phyto Plankton Biomass and Photosynthesis in the High Mountain Lake La-Caldera Sierra-Nevada Spain	"Dokulil, M., H.Metz and D.Jewson (Ed.).Developments in Hydrobiology, Vol.3.Shallow Lakes: Contributions to their Limnology; Meeting, Illmitz, Austria, Sept.23-30, 1979.Xii+212p.W.Junk Bv Publishers: the Hague, Netherlands; Boston, Mass, Usa.Illus"	 	1980	1980 (RECD. 1981)	 	 	P111	120	"Biochemistry & Molecular Biology;Developmental Biology;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	 	PT: S	 		Developments in Hydrobiology	 	 	 				 	"0167-8418; 90-6193-753-1 ER"	 	"MARTINEZ R; UNIV GRANADA, DEP ECOL, GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	"DT: Book; Meeting"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Martinez,R.	Phyto Plankton Species Biomass and Diversity in Lake La-Caldera Sierra-Nevada Granada Spain	Acta Hydrobiologica	 	1977	 	19	2	95	108	"Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology"	"The phytoplankton of the high mountain lake La Caldera (3050 m above sea level) in the Sierra Nevada (Penibetic Mountains, South Spain) was examined for the 1st time. The study was carried out during the ice-free period, June-Sept., 1973. The dominant algal class was the Chrysophyta, mainly chrysomonads of the genus Chromulina. Diatoms were poorly represented; most of them came from the bottom or littoral communities. An uncommon phenomenon was the quantitatively important presence of the blue-green alga Cyanarcus hamiformis. Cell number, biomass and Shannon's diversity index were calculated. The indices are in accordance with those in other alpine ecosystems."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0065-132X ER	 	"MARTINEZ R; DEP ECOL, FAC SCI, UNIV GRANADA, GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Martinez,T.	Comparison of the Alimentary Habits of the Wild Goat and Sheep in the Alpine Zone of Sierra Nevada Spain	Archivos de Zootecnia	Arch.Zootec.	1988	 	37	137	39	50	"Agriculture;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	It has been compared the diets of the Spanish wild goat (Capra pyrenaica) and the sheep (Ovis aries) in the Alpine zone of Sierra Nevada. To that effect 25 faecal samples were analyzed from each of the ungulata by micrographyc technics. The most relevant plant species in the goats diet were Agrostis nevadensis, Juniperus nana, Festuca iberica, F. clementei, F,. nevadensis, while in the case of sheep they were Agrostis nevadensis, Arenaria tetraquetra, Thymus serpylloides, Ptilotrichum purpureum, Festuca iberica, Crepis oporinoides, etc. Sheep consumed higher proprortion of herbaceous plants than the goat. The diet overlap was 56.3%. Grasses were the trophyc group which larger overlap, and the Rs value was also high and significative(P < 0.05). The overlap of the rest of thophyc groups was 50% for chamaephytes and lower for shrubs and forbs, the Rs values were low and non significative.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0004-0592 ER	 	"MARTINEZ T; UNIDAD ZOOL APLICADA, CONSEJERIA AGRIC GANADERIA, EL ENCIN, ALCALDA DE HENARES, MADRID, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Book, Whole	Martinez-Silvestre R	1st Report on the Limnology of the Alpine Lake La-Caldera in the Penibetic Mountains Sierra-Nevada Granada Spain	 	 	1975	 	 	 	1139	 	"Biochemistry & Molecular Biology;Developmental Biology;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology ER"	 	PT: B	 		 	 	 	 				 	 	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Book	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Book, Whole	Martinez-Silvestre R	Study of the Diatom Flora of the Alpine Lake Aguas-Verdes Sierra-Nevada Granada Spain by Light and Electron Microscopy	 	 	1974	 	 	 	135	 	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology;Science & Technology - Other Topics ER"	 	PT: B	 		 	 	 	 				 	 	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Book	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Medina,Leopoldo	Sparganium angustifolium Michaux (Sparaganiaceae), a forgotten plant from Sierra Nevada (Granada)	Anales del Jardin Botanico de Madrid	An.Jard.Bot.Madrid	1998	June, 1998	56	1	169	170	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	 	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0211-1322 ER	 	"Medina, Leopoldo; Real Jardin Botanico, CSIC, Plaza de Murillo 2, E-28014 Madrid, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Michelsen,V.	The Mediterranean Species of Pegoplata Section Cuticornis Diptera Anthomyiidae	Entomologica Scandinavica	Entomol.Scand.	1988	 	19	4	489	502	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology"	The monophyly of the following anthomyiid aggregates is substantiated: The Myopininae/Myopinini = (Enneastigma Stein + Calythea Schnabl and Dziedzicki) + (Pegoplata Schnabl and Dziedzicki + Myopina Robineau-Desvoidy). The Afrotropical species tarsata (Adams), ornata (Bezzi) and two Oriental species, fulva (Malloch), henanensis (Ge and Fan), all currently recognized in Nupedia Karl, either referable to Enneastigma or to a new genus in the Enneastigma + Calythea lineage. The recent inclusion of Nupedia in Pegoplata is accepted, but it is pointed out that Pegoplata s. lat. is probably paraphyletic in terms of Myopina. The monophyly of Pegoplata (section cuticornis) is confirmed, and it is argued that its sister group is section acutipennis. Section cuticornis is found to include 1 Holarctic, 2 Nearctic, and 6-7 Palearctic species of which 4 new ones are described from the Mediterranean: P. granadensis sp. n. from Sierra Nevada in Spain, and P. freidbergi sp. n., P. grandis sp. n. and P. hermonensis sp. n. from Mt. Hermon at the Lebanese/Syrian border. The Mediterranean species, which are shown to constitute a monophyletic group, are keyed and subjected to cladistic and biogeographic analyses.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0013-8711 ER	 	"MICHELSEN V; DEP ENTOMOL, ZOOL MUSEUM, UNIV COPENHAGEN, UNIVERSITETSPARKEN 15, DK-2100 COPENHAGEN O, DENMARK"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Montero,A. M.;Ranera,A. T."	Phenology of the Vespidae in Sierra Nevada Granada Spain Hymenoptera Vespidae	Boletin de la Asociacion Espanola de Entomologia	Bol.Asoc.Esp.Entomol.	1987	 	11	 	159	170	"Behavioral Sciences;Physiology;Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	This paper deals the phenology of the Vespidae species occurring in Sierra Nevada, in each of the bioclimatic levels in order to know the way in which altitude may affect the phenological behaviour of each species. It also studies the phenology of each of the tribes existing in Sierra Nevada, as a whole, at the three bioclimatic levels where they occur and can be observed some tendencies from which we point out the following: a) The number of individuals increases when the altitude increases. b) For a single tribe the binomial activity becomes unimodal as altitude increases. c) Alternation in the maximums of tribes do not coincide either in space or in time.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-8984 ER	 	"MONTERO A M; DEPARTAMENTO DE BIOLOGIA ANIMAL, ECOLOGIA Y GENETICA, FACULTAD DE CIENCIAS, UNIVERSIDAD DE GRANADA, 18071-GRANADA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Mota,J. F.;Valle,F."	New Data for the Flora of Sierra Nevada Andalusia Spain	Webbia	Webbia	1986	 	40	2	323	334	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	Although Sierra Nevada has been frequently explored from the botanical point of view, numerous gaps are still existing in its floristic knowledge. In the present paper the author takes into consideration some interesting species (e.g. Crassula vaillantii, Lythrum portula, Rosa nitidula, Hyssopus officinalis, etc. which appear to be new in regard to the area concerned. Other misinterpreted taxa are also considered (e.g. Juniperus communis subsp. hemisphaerica, Astragalus granatensis subsp. granatensis, Veronica repens, etc.) which show particular interest from a taxonomical or geographical point of view. The distribution in the area is also shown. The relating herbarium specimens are kept in the herbarium of the Faculty of Sciences, University of Granada (GDAC).	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0083-7792 ER	 	"MOTA J F; DEP DE BOTANICA, FACULDAD DE CIENCIAS, UNIV DE GRANADA, ESPANA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Book, Whole	"Munguira,M. L.;Martin,J."	The Sierra Nevada Blue, Polyommatus golgus (Hubner)	 	 	1993	 	8	 	94	 	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Biodiversity & Conservation;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Anatomy & Morphology"	 	PT: B	 	New,T. R.	Occasional Paper of the IUCN Species Survival Commission	 	 	 				 	2-8317-0159-7 ER	 	Dep. Biol., Fac. Ciencias, Univ. Autonoma Madrid, Madrid, Spain	 	 	 	"DT: Book; Book Chapter"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Nieto Feliner,Gonzalo	"Notulae taxinomicae, chorologicae, nomenclaturales, bibliographicae aut philologicae in opus ""Flora Iberica"" intendentes: Are the yellow flowered and purple-violet-flowered orophilous Erysimum from the Sierra Nevada Mountain range conspecific?"	Anales del Jardin Botanico de Madrid	An.Jard.Bot.Madrid	1992	 	50	2	272	274	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Plant Sciences;Cell Biology;Genetics & Heredity"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0211-1322 ER	 	Real Jardin Botanico, CSIC, Plaza de Murillo 2, 28014 Madrid, Spain	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Nieto Feliner,Gonzalo;Gutierrez Larena,Belen;Fuertes Aguilar,Javier"	Fine-scale geographical structure, intra-individual polymorphism and recombination in nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacers in Armeria (Plumbaginaceae).	Annals of Botany (London)	 	2004	Feb-04	93	2	189	200	"Evolutionary Biology;Genetics & Heredity"	"Background and Aims: Isolation and drift are the main causes for geographic structure of molecular variation. In contrast, the one found in a previous survey in Armeria (Plumbaginaceae) for nuclear ribosomal ITS multi-copy regions was species-independent and has been hypothesized to be due to extensive gene-flow and biased concerted evolution. Since this was inferred from a genus-level phylogenetic analysis, the aim of this study was to check for the occurrence of such structure and the validity of the proposed model at a local scale, in a southern Spanish massif (Sierra Nevada), as well as to examine the evolutionary implications at the organism level. Methods: In addition to 117 sequences of direct PCR products from genomic DNA, 50 sequences of PCR products from cloned DNA were obtained to analyse cases of intragenomic polymorphisms for the ITS regions. Key Results: Sequence data confirm the occurrence of a species-independent structure at a local scale and reveal insights through the analysis of contact areas between different ITS copies (ribotypes). A comparison between cloned and direct sequences (a) confirms that, within these contact areas, ITS copies co-occur both in different individuals and within single genomes; and (b) reveals recombination between different copies. Conclusions: This study supports the utility of direct sequences for detecting intra-individual polymorphism and for partially inferring the ITS copies involved, given previous knowledge of the variability. The main evolutionary implication at the organism level is that gene-flow and concerted evolution shape the geographic structure of ITS variation."	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0305-7364	 	"Nieto Feliner, Gonzalo; Real Jardin Botanico, CSIC, Plaza de Murillo 2, E-28014, Madrid, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	10.1093/aob/mch027 ER	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Nieto Feliner,Gonzalo;Rossello,Josep Antoni;Fuertes,Javier"	A new subspecies of Armeria filicaulis (Plumbaginaceae) from Sierra Nevada (southern Spain)	Anales del Jardin Botanico de Madrid	An.Jard.Bot.Madrid	1998	June, 1998	56	1	162	164	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	 	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0211-1322 ER	 	"Nieto Feliner, Gonzalo; Real Jardin Botanico, CSIC, Plaza de Murillo 2, E-28014 Madrid, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Novoa,Francisco;Baselga,Andres"	"[Carabidae of west central Rif; Morocco (Coleoptera)]"	Nouvelle Revue d'Entomologie	Nouv.Rev.Entomol.	1999	Octobre-Decembre, 1999	16	4	311	325	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	A total of 147 species of Carabidae (Coleoptera) are quoted from the central and western part of the Rif Mountains in Morocco. Nineteen taxa are reported from the Rif for the first time, standing out the citations of Tachyura pallidicornis Jeanne, Philochtus guttula (Fabricius), Phyla tethys (Netolitzky), Calathus erythroderus Gemminger and Harold, Amara eurynota (Panzer), Amara chobauti Puel, Ophonus rufibarbis (Fabricius) and Nectochlaenius canariensis (Dejean). Besides the record of Acupalpus cantabricus La Brulerie in Morocco is confirmed. Most faunistc elements are Mediterranean, but there is a noteworthy representation of 32 Moroccan taxa (21,8%), ten of which are endemic of Rif Mountains. Finally, the affinities with the fauna of Sierra Nevada are studied.	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0374-9797 ER	 	"Novoa, Francisco; Baselga, Andres; Departamento de Biologia Animal, Facultad de Biologia, Universidad de Santiago de Compostela, E-15706, Santiago de Compostela, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	"Los Carabidae del Rif centro occidental; Marruecos (Coleoptera)"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Ocana,A.;Pena Santiago,R.;Hernandez Ruiz,J.;Morales Baquero,R."	Nematodes of the order Dorylaimida (Pearse, 1942) in different high-mountain lakes of the Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain)	Nematology	Nematology	2002	 	4	2	187	 	"Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology"	 	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	1388-5545 ER	 	"Ocana, A.; Hernandez Ruiz, J.; Morales Baquero, R.; Depto Biologia Animal y Ecologia, Universidad de Granada, Granada, 18071, Spain; amelia@ugr.es"	 	 	 	"DT: Meeting; LT: Meeting Abstract"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Olivares,Javier;Jutzeler,David;Leestmans,Ronny"	Arethusana boabdil (Rambur, 1840) from Grenada, Andalusia: An excellent species (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae: Satyrinae)	Linneana Belgica	Linn.Belg.	1999	Dec., 1999	17	4	135	154	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	The main aim of this paper consists of demonstrating the morphological differences between the first instar of A. arethusa (Denis and Schiffermueler, 1775) from Mt. Ventoux in southern France and A. boabdil occurring in the Sierra Nevada (southern Spain). The description of the early stages of the latter, depicted in colour, seemed to be unpublished. The differences found in the eggs and in the larvae are of such an importance that a new taxonomic approach of boabdil, being a species on its own, is a matter without doubt. The position of the Moroccan aksouali (Wyatt, 1952) and dentata (Staudinger, 1871) fron the SW. of France and NW. of Spain remain questionable as long as their first instars remain uncompared with those of the nominal arethusa. Full particulars on the habitat and on the distribution of boabdil, as well as on the geographical distribution of the other taxa fo the Arethusana-complex, are completing this study.	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0024-4090 ER	 	"Olivares, Javier; Calle Gallito 9, E-18014, Granada, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Ortega Bernaldo De Quiros,E.	Edaphoclimate of the South-Southeast Part of Sierra-Nevada Spain	Anales de Edafologia y Agrobiologia	 	1984	 	43	07-Aug	987	1018	"Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences;Science & Technology - Other Topics;Agriculture"	"The soil climate (edaphoclimate) of the south-southeast part of the Sierra Nevada was studied from data based on the soil water balance as well as soil moisture and temperature regimes in ""Soil Taxonomy"" (Soil Survey Staff, 1975). Rain and temperature are both linear functions of elevation, rainfall increasing more than 34 mm and temperature decreasing 0.59.degree. C, every 100 m. Mediterranean characteristics of climate are represented on the soil by the annual presence 2 important periods: water deficit (summer) and water excess (winter), when altitude increases the former decreases and the latter increases. Soil moisture and temperature regimes are seriated according to altitude, the last changing from thermic to mesic to frigid and cryic at 844, 2030 and 2160 m respectively. Moisture content belongs to a xeric regime up to 2400-2500 m. Edaphoclimatic data obtained were perfectly coherent with those from soil genesis and typology of the zone."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0365-1797 ER	 	"DELGADO CALVO-FLORES R; DEP DE GEOL Y EDAFOL, FACULTAD DE FARMACIA, UNIV DE GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Ortega,A.;Buendia,A. G."	Contribution to the Mycological Catalogue of the Sierra Nevada Granada Spain	International Journal of Mycology and Lichenology	 	1986	 	3	1	17	54	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology"	"Three hundred fourteen species of fungi collected from the Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain) are described or mentioned here, which can be grouped as follows: nineteen Myxomycetes: forty-seven Discomycetes; two hundred twenty two Hymenomycetes and twenty six Gasteromycetes."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0723-3353 ER	 	"ORTEGA A; DEP BOTANICA, FAC CIENCIAS, UNIV GRANADA, GRANADA, ESPANA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Pace,R.	Some Therian and Maghrebian Species of Atheta of the Subgenus Microdota Coleoptera Staphylinidae 36th Contribution to the Aleocharinae	Giornale Italiano di Entomologia	G.Ital.Entomol.	1982	 	2	1	73	80	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology"	Iberian and Maghrebian species of Atheta of the subgenus Microdota Muls. and Rey were studied. The male genitalia of A. (M.) lindbergiella Brundin and male genitalia and spermatheca of A. (M) steineri Scheerpeltz are illustrated for the 1st time. The new species A. (M.) franziella from Sierra Nevada [Spain] is described and illustrated. A. (M.) minor (Aube) is transferred to genus Ischnoglossa. Xenodota subgen. nov. A. (Traumoecia) insignicollis (Fauvel) an A. (? M.) normandi Fauvel are redescribed, illustrated and discussed. New geographic data are added for all species except A. steineri Scheerpeltz, A. insignicollis (Fauvel) and A. normandi Fauvel.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0392-7296 ER	 	"PACE R; MUSEO CIVICO DI STORIA NATURALE DI VERONA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Pardo Alcaide,A.	Studies on Meloidae Coleoptera Part 24 a New Species of Mylabris Mylabris-Platai New-Species from the Sierra-Nevada Spain	Cuadernos de Ciencias Biologicas Universidad de Granada	 	1975	 	4	 	45	50	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology ER"	The new species Mylabris (Micrabris) platai, which was collected on composite and graminaceous plants, Scabiosa sp. and Ononis sp., is described. It was found in some locations with M. nevadensis Escalera. The new species is similar to M. varians Gyllenhal and M. dejeani Gyllenhal.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	 	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Parraga Martinez,J.	The Soil of Repopulated Forests of Pinus-Sylvestris and Pinus-Uncinata of the Deep Valley of the Chico River Southern Versant of the Sierra Nevada Spain	Anales de Edafologia y Agrobiologia	 	1985	 	44	11-Dec	1663	1680	"Forestry;Agriculture"	It has been studied four soil profile developed under pine reforestation from the Southern versant of Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain). The range of altitude is 2150-2500 m. The range of slope is 25-50% and the parent material is derived from acid metamorphic rocks (micaschits and quarzites). The soil have been classified as dystric Xerochrept, typic Xerumbrepts and typic Xerorthent. In most cases the soil has a profile with O, Ah and Bw horizons. The development degree of the last horizon is function of the landscape position. Textures are sandy loam skeletal. They have an acid reaction, a little base saturation and a little sesquioxides mobilization process. The humic profile is conditioned by a relatively high content organic matter, and humus type near moder. The main pedogenetic processes are in order of importance, melanization, alteration-brunification and chemistry podzolization (the last is a little evident).	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0365-1797 ER	 	"PARRAGA MARTINEZ J; DEP EDAFOLOGIA, FAC FARMACIA, UNIV GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Parraga Martinez,J.	The Influence of the Topography and Vegetation on Forest Soils of the Camarate Sierra-Nevada Spain	Anales de Edafologia y Agrobiologia	 	1983	 	42	11-Dec	1885	1904	"Agriculture;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Forestry;Nutrition & Dietetics"	"The influence was studied of the vegetation and topography on the soils of a forested area in Sierra Nevada Granada Spain, as the Camarate paddock. Vegetation consisted of oak, grove, pastures, shrubbery, etc. The altitude and the gradient influence the following characters of the surface horizons of the soil: percent organic C, total N2, base saturation and content in free Fe and clay minerals. The vegetation essentially controls the humus type; the following sequence was observed with respect to residues: Acer > oak > pasture > oak grove > shrubbery."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0365-1797 ER	 	"PARRAGA MARTINEZ J; DEP DE EDAFOL, FACULTAD DE FARMACIA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Parraga Martinez,J.;Serrano Molina,E."	The Xerumbrepts of Mountain Shrubbery from South Versant of Sierra Nevada Granada Spain	Anales de Edafologia y Agrobiologia	 	1985	 	54	07-Aug	1029	1044	"Biochemistry & Molecular Biology;Agriculture"	Have been studied the Xerumbrepts formed under Genista and Juniperus shrubbery in the South slope of Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain). The soils have profils O, Ah, Bw y C, with the subsurface altered horizon weakly developeepd. They are sandy-skeletal texture, acid reaction, base desaturation, relatively high organic matter content and sesquioxides mobilization processes. These characteristics are owing to the import altitude, the parent rock acid and the abrupt landscape. The soils studied are humic Cambisols in the F. A. O. classification, acid brown soils in the French classification and finally, oligotrophic Braunerdes in the Kubiena system.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0365-1797 ER	 	"DELGADO CALVO-FLORES G; DEP EDAFOL, FAC FARMACIA, UNIV GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Parraga,J.;Aguilar,J."	Edaphological Study of the Dehesa of Camarate Sierra-Nevada Granada Spain 1. Macro and Micro Morphological Characteristics	Anales de Edafologia y Agrobiologia	 	1981	 	40	05-Jun	775	796	"Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences;Agriculture"	Profiles (14) located at the Dehesa of Camarate within Sierra Nevada (Spain) were studied. All the soils are developed on metamorphic rocks with a udic regime of precipitation and frigid temperatures. The vegetation is very varied oaks, brush and pasture. The soils have been classified by FAO System in a soils sequence Entic Haplumbrept .fwdarw. Typic Haplumbret .fwdarw. Haploboroll .fwdarw. Argiboroll .fwdarw. Rhodudult. The genesis of these soils was studied and the main processes which have taken part in the formation of these soils. They are as follows: humification, brownish, argillization, pseudogleyization, illimerization and podzolization.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0365-1797 ER	 	"PARRAGA J; DEP EDAFOL, FAC FARM UNIV GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Pascual Torres,F.	The Coprophagous Scarabaeoidea Coleoptera of the High Mountain Wet Grassland in Sierra Nevada Granada Spain	Boletin de la Asociacion Espanola de Entomologia	Bol.Asoc.Esp.Entomol.	1989	 	13	 	57	66	"Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Physiology"	"The coprophagous scarab fauna of one of the most characteristic biotopes of the high Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain) has been studied, namely ""borreguiles"" located at the head of river San Juan, at 2500 m. These ""borreguiles"" located at the head of river San Juan, at 2500 m. These ""borreguiles"" are used for cattle grazing during summer. A total of 93 samples collected during 1980, 1981 and 1982 have been analyzed for existant species, relationship between them, mean number of species and individuals per sample, and species diversity. Twelve species were collected, six Scarabaeidae, five Aphodiidae and one Geotrupidae. These results indicate that the borreguiles have a poor fauna as judging from the low mean values of species and individuals. [The following species are discussed: Sisyphus schaefferi, Gymnopleurus flagellatus, Euonthophagus gibbosus, Onthophagus similis, O. fracticornis, O. vacca, Aphodius haemorrhoidalis, A. fimetarius, A. lividus, A. granarius, Geotrupes ibericus.]."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-8984 ER	 	"AVILA SANCHEZ-JOFRE J M; DEP BIOL ANIM ECOL Y GENETICA, FAC CIENCIAS, UNIV GRANADA, 18071 GRANADA, ESPANA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Pascual Torres,F.	Contribution to the Study of Coprophagic Scarabids from the Sierra Nevada Granada Spain Vi. Autecology of the Species of the Family Aphodiidae Coleoptera Scarabaeoidea	Boletim da Sociedade Portuguesa de Entomologia	Bol.Soc.Port.Entomol.	1987	 	 	90	1	20	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Gastroenterology & Hepatology;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Physiology"	The autecology of the species of the family Aphodiidae was studied. The specimens of coprophagic scarabids were collected from semi-fresh equine and bovine feces in the Sierra Nevada, between March 1981 and Feb. 1983. Of the 31 species captured, the 9 most abundant [Aphodius castaneus, A. fimetarius, A. foetidus, A. granarius, A. erraticus, A. scrutator, A. sphacelatus, A. affinis, and A. contaminatus] were discussed, including ecological and phenological considerations.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0870-7227 ER	 	"SANCHEZ-JOFRE J M A; DEPARTAMENTO DE BIOLOGIA ANIMAL, ECOLOGIA Y GENETICA FACULTAD DE CIENCIAS UNIVERSIDAD DE GRANADA 18071 GRANADA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Pascual,F.	Description of a Male Eumigus-Rubioi Orthoptera Pamphagidae	EOS-Revista Espanola de Entomologia	 	1981	 	57	01-Apr	195	200	"Anatomy & Morphology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	The first description of the .male. of the species E. rubioi Harz. is given, and several considerations about its chorology, ecological and altitudinal distribution are made.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0013-9440 ER	 	"PASCUAL F; DEPARTAMENTO DE ZOOLOGIA, FACULTAD DE CIENCIAS, UNIVERSIDAD DE GRANADA, GRANADA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Pascual,F.	Preliminary Study of Orthoptera of the Sierra-Nevada Spain 4. Altitude Distribution	Boletin de la Asociacion Espanola de Entomologia	Bol.Asoc.Esp.Entomol.	1978	 	2	 	49	64	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	The altitudinal distribution of Orthoptera from Sierra Nevada (Spain) was studied. The composition of this fauna, characteristics of the distribution and their relationships with the distribution of the vegetation are discussed. There is a great Mediterranean influence. The altitude influences the species number, composition and replacement. The true high altitude fauna occurs at > 2000 m. The altitudinal distribution of Orthoptera from Sierra Nevada is closely related with the distribution of the vegetation.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-8984 ER	 	"PASCUAL F; CATEDRA DE ZOOL, FACULTAD DE CIENCIAS, UNIV DE GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Pascual,F.	Description of a New Species Ctenodecticus-Granatensis New-Species from the Sierra-Nevada Spain Orthoptera Tettigoniidae Decticinae	Bulletin Zoologisch Museum Universiteit van Amsterdam	 	1978	 	6	14	105	108	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Anatomy & Morphology"	A new species, C. granatensis, from the Sierra Nevada, Spain, is described. It is compared with C. masferreri Bolivar, and a key to the Iberian species of the genus is given.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0165-9464 ER	 	"PASCUAL F; DEP ZOOL, FAC CIENC, GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Pascual,F.	Description of a New Species Omocestus-Ilorenteae New-Species from the Sierra-Nevada Spain Orthoptera Acrididae Gomphocerinae	EOS-Revista Espanola de Entomologia	 	1978	 	52	01-Apr	159	166	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Anatomy & Morphology"	"A new species O. llorenteae from Sierra Nevada, Spain, is described. Features include: small size; lateral carinae of pronotum strongly incurvated in the middle of prozona; typical sulcus; elytra extending to the 9th tergum in the .male. and the 6th in the .female., lengthened, with the apex rounded; 3rd radial vein, in the .female., confounded with the 2nd and alae as long as the elytra."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0013-9440 ER	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Pascual,F.	Chorthippus-Nevadensis New-Species from the Sierra-Nevada Spain Orthoptera Acrididae	EOS-Revista Espanola de Entomologia	 	1978	 	52	01-Apr	167	174	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Anatomy & Morphology"	"A new species C. nevadensis from Spain (Granada, Sierra Nevada) is described. Its distinctive features are small size, reduced wings, lateral carinae of pronotum slightly incurved in the middle of prozona and crossed by 2 small sulci; elytra with its apex rounded and hind margin curved; mediastinae area broad; discoidal area larger than scapular area and the tympanal apertures are open and oval."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0013-9440 ER	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Pascual,F.	Ctenodecticus-Major New-Species from Sierra-Nevada Spain Orthoptera Tettigoniidae	Cuadernos de Ciencias Biologicas Universidad de Granada	 	1976	 	5	 	83	86	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology ER"	C. major sp. nov. from Sierra Nevada, Spain is described. Distinctive features are the slightly greater body size and the female subgenital plate with a posterior edge more or less straight and longer than the fore edge.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	 	 	"PASCUAL F; DEP ZOOL, FAC CIENC, UNIV GRANADA, GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Perez Lopez,F. Javier	Contribution to the knowledge of the noctuids of Sierra Nevada (Granada) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae)	Boletim da Sociedade Portuguesa de Entomologia	Bol.Soc.Port.Entomol.	1992	 	0	139	187	 	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0870-7227 ER	 	Dep. Biol. Animal Ecol., Fac. Ciencias, Univ. Granada, 18071 Granada, Spain	 	 	 	"DT: Meeting; LT: Catalog; Meeting Abstract"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Perez Lopez,Francisco Javier;Yela,Jose Luis"	Genus Chersotis Boisduval, 1840 (Lepidoptera, Noctuidae) in Sierra Nevada (Granada, South of Spain): Faunistical, taxonomical, biogeographical and altitudinal datas	Nouvelle Revue d'Entomologie	Nouv.Rev.Entomol.	1994	 	11	1	31	42	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Anatomy & Morphology"	"Species of the genus Chersotis BOISDUVAL, 1840 (Lepidoptera, Noctuidae, Noctuinae) inhabiting the Sierra Nevada (Granada, South Spain) are noted. The presence of Chersotis oreina DUFAY, 1984 is confirmed; it replaces in this area the northern Chersotis alpestris (BOISDUVAL, 1837), whose Iberian distribution is restricted to the Pyrenean chain. Chersotis alpestris should be therefore eliminated from the catalogue of Sierra Nevada fauna. Chersotis margaritacea (DE VILLERS, 1789) is recorded for the first time from the Sierra Nevada area. Data on faunistics, taxonomy and biogeography of these species and five other inhabiting the Sierra Nevada mountains are given. At last, their altitudinal distribution is briefly studied."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0374-9797 ER	 	"Perez Lopez, Francisco Javier; Dep. Biol. Anim. y Ecol., Fac. Ciencias, Univ. Granada, E-18071 Granada, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Perez Lopez,Javier;Tinaut,Alberto"	Diarsia guadarramensis, new record (Boursin, 1928) in the south of the Iberian Peninsula (Lepidoptera, Noctuidae)	Boletin de la Asociacion Espanola de Entomologia	Bol.Asoc.Esp.Entomol.	1992	 	16	0	251	 	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-8984 ER	 	Dep. Biol. Anim. y Ecol., Fac. Ciencias, Univ. Granada, 18071 Granada, Spain	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Perez Raya,F.;Casares Porcel,M."	Palynological Study on the Genus Asplenium L. in Sierra Nevada Andalusia Spain	Candollea	Candollea	1986	 	41	2	369	380	"Plant Sciences;Anatomy & Morphology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	A study is made with the light microscope and with the scanning electron microscope of the spores of fifteen taxa of Asplenium (Aspleniaceae, Pteridophyta) that live in the Sierra Nevada (Andalucia, Spain). Tables of measures, a map and photographs of the spores are added.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0373-2967 ER	 	"PEREZ RAYA F; DEP BIOLOGIA VEGETAL, FAC FARMACIA, E-18071 GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Perez Raya,F.;Casares Porcel,M.;Jimenez Gonzalez,J."	Palynological study of the genus Polypodium L. in the Sierra Nevada (Andalucia, Spain)	Revista de Biologia (Lisbon)	 	1988	1988-1989	14	01-Apr	221	228	"Plant Sciences;Reproductive Biology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	A study is made with the light microscope and with the scanning electron microscope of the spores of three taxa of Polypodium (Polypodiaceae, Pteridophyta) that live in the Sierra Nevada (Andalucia, Spain) (P. vulgare L., P. interjectum Shivas and P. cambricum L.). Tables of measures and photographs of the spores are added.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0034-7736 ER	 	Dep. Biol. Vegetal, Faculdade Farmacia, E-18071 Granada, Spain	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Perez Raya,F.;Molero Mesa,J."	Considerations on the Order Rosmarinetalia Br. Bl. 1931 1952 in the Sierra Nevada Granada Spain	Memorias da Sociedade Broteriana	 	1988	 	28	 	137	156	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	A phytosociological study of the communities of the ord. Rosmarinetalia in the Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain) in realized. Two alliances, Lavandulo-Echinospartion boissieri and Saturejo-Corydothymion, and four associations is recognized. Six new syntaxa are proposed: Thymo gracile-Lavanduletum lanatae ass. nov., Thymo gracile-Lavanduletum lanatae stipetosum tenacissimae subass. nov. and thymetosum baetici subass. nov., Convolvulo lanuginosi-Lavanduletum lanatae velletosum spinosae subass. nov. and thymelaetosum angustifoliae subass. nov., and Centaureo bombycinae-Lavanduletum lanatae globularietosum spinosae subass. nov.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0081-0665 ER	 	"PEREZ RAYA F; DEP BIOL VEGETAL, FAC FARM, UNIV GRANADA, ESPANA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Perez,L.	The Biochemical Diversity of Heterotrophic Bacterial Communities in High Mountain Lakes from Sierra Nevada Granada Spain	Acta Hydrobiologica	 	1987	 	29	2	137	148	"Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology;Physiology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	"The results of the study demonstrate that there is a close relationship between the ""physiological state"" of the lakes and the biochemical diversity of the bacterial community. Those lakes which presented high Margale f's pigment indices contained a denser bacterial community, but this community showed a less diverse biochemical capacity to use different kinds of substrata."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0065-132X ER	 	"CANTERAS J-C; UNIV CANTABRIA, DEP ECOL, ETS CIVIL ENG, AV DE LOS CASTROS, S/N SANTANDER, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Perez-Lopez,F. J.;Tinaut,A."	The Noctuidae from Sierra Nevada (Granada) (Iberian Peninsula) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae)	Boletin de la Asociacion Espanola de Entomologia	Bol.Asoc.Esp.Entomol.	1993	 	17	2	205	245	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	The aim of the present work is to compile a catalogue of the Noctuidae of the Sierra Nevada Mountains (Granada, Iberian Peninsula). Intensive qualitative sampling over a period of six years has accompanied a review of private collections and a review of bibliography. The presence of this family in the studied area include 354 species. We add 31 new records for the Sierra Nevada, including 16 new for Andalusia, in the literature.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-8984 ER	 	"Perez-Lopez, F. J.; Dpto. Biol. Anim. Ecol., Fac. Ciencias, Univ. Granada, 18071 Granada, Spain"	 	 	 	"DT: Article; LT: Catalog"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Prieto,P.;Espinosa,P."	Asco Lichens of the Cliffs of San-Francisco Sierra-Nevada Granada Part 1	Cuadernos de Ciencias Biologicas Universidad de Granada	 	1971	 	1	 	95	98	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Anatomy & Morphology ER"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	 	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Puehringer,F.;Poell,N."	A hitherto unknown male of Synansphecia kautzi (Reisser, 1930) (Lepidoptera, Sesiidae)	Zeitschrift der Arbeitsgemeinschaft Oesterreichischer Entomologen	Z.Arbeitsgem.Osterr.Entomol.	1999	April 30, 1999	51	01-Feb	1	8	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	The hitherto unknown male of Synansphecia kautzi (REISSER, 1930) (Lepidoptera, Sesiidae), collected by means of synthetic pheromones, is described and pictured. The locus typicus is made out as being the San Juan mountain west of Puerto de la Ragua in the Andalusian Sierra Nevada. S. kautzi seems to belong to the leucomelaena-group, the foodplant being probably a species of Rosaceae, Cistaceae or Geraniaceae.	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0375-5223 ER	 	"Puehringer, F.; Im Feld 17, A-4644, Scharnstein, Austria"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Puehringer,Franz;Poell,Norbert"	Notes on the biology of Synansphecia kautzi (REISSER, 1930) (Lepidoptera, Sesiidae).	Zeitschrift der Arbeitsgemeinschaft Oesterreichischer Entomologen	Z.Arbeitsgem.Osterr.Entomol.	2004	 	56	01-Feb	5	11	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	The biology of the clearwing moth Synansphecia kautzi, which is restricted to the Spanish Sierra Nevada and had not been found for almost 70 years, could be clarified. The larva lives in the root of Erodium petraeum crispum (Geraniacee).	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0375-5223 ER	 	"Puehringer, Franz; Im Feld 17, A-4644, Scharnstein, Austria"	 	 	 	DT: Article	Zur Biologie von Synansphecia kautzi (Reisser, 1930) (Lepidoptera, Sesiidae).	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Remane,Reinhard;Holzinger,Werner E."	Two new Cixius (Ceratocixius) species from south-western Palaearctic Region (Insecta: Homoptera: Auchenorrhyncha: Cixiidae)	Reichenbachia	Reichenbachia	1998	Sept. 15, 1998	32	25-53	181	186	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	Two closely related Cixiidae species, Cixius (Ceratocixius) trirhacoides REMANE and HOLZINGER spec. nov. from montane oak forests of Andalusia, Spain, and Cixius (Ceratocixius) suaedicola REMANE and HOLZINGER spec. Nov. From halophytic plants of south-western Morocco are described. Externally they resemble Trirhacus-taxa (including the presence of setose tubercles on the distal margin of the tegmina between the veins!), but their male genitalia show their close proximity to C. (C.) cunicularius (L.).	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0070-7279 ER	 	"Remane, Reinhard; Fachbereich Biologie-Zoologie, Philipps-Universitaet Marburg, Karl-von-Frisch-Strasse, D-35032, Marburg/Lahn, Germany"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Roldan,A.;Descals,E.;Honrubia,M."	Aquatic Hyphomycetes from Sierra Nevada and Sierra De Los Filabres South Spain	Acta Botanica Malacitana	 	1988	 	13	 	77	90	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology"	"Conidia of fifty-two taxa of ""aquatic Hyphomycetes"" (49 aquatic Hyphomycetes and anamorphs of Asco- and Basidiomycetes, and 3 Zygomycetes) were found in foam samples from rivers and streams of Sierra Nevada and Sierra de los Filabres (S-Spain). The results are discussed and some unnamed forms are listed and drawn."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-9506 ER	 	"ROLDAN A; DEPARTAMENTO DE BOTANICA, FACULTAD DE BIOLOGIA, UNIVERSIDAD DE MURCIA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Ruiz Rejon,C.;Lozano,R.;Ruiz Rejon,M."	Polysomy and Supernumerary Chromosomes in Ornithogalum-Umbellatum L. Liliaceae	Genome	Genome	1987	 	29	1	19	25	"Cell Biology;Genetics & Heredity"	"One hundred bulbs of Ornithogalum umbellatum L. have been analyzed cytogenetically in one natural population collected from the Sierra Nevada of Spain. Three types of plants were identified: (i) diploid plants (2n = 18, 26%); (ii) diploid plants with a variable number of B chromosomes (1-8 B's, 40%); and (iii) polysomic plants (2n = 19-23) with or without B's (34%). B's are of two types: metacentric and acrocentric and are associated with three types of abnormalities: (i) failure of the A chromosomes to move to the poles at anaphase I; (ii) nondisjunction of some A chromosomes at anaphase II; and (iii) the occurrence of tetraploid sporocytes. The B's are isopycnotic, do not associate with the A's, and invariably occur as univalents at first meiosis but show no tendency for elimination. All members of the complement except the satellite chromosome, no. 6, have been detected in a trisomic or a tetrasomic condition. Additionally some unusual structural variants, not present in the diploid standard complement, appear in some polysomic individuals. The polysomic elements are euchromatic, stable, and they do not associate either with normal chromosomes or with B's. The polysomic elements form univalents when they are trisomic and bivalents when tetrasomic. The fact that a high frequency (94%) of the polysomic elements also carry B's suggests that these two forms of numerical variation are interrelated in origin."	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0831-2796 ER	 	"RUIZ REJON C; DEP GENETICA, FAC CIENCIAS, UNIV GRANADA, GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Ruiz Rejon,C.;Ruiz Rejon,M."	Chromosomal Polymorphism for a Heterochromatic Supernumerary Segment in a Natural Population of Tulipa-Australis Liliaceae	Canadian Journal of Genetics and Cytology	 	1985	 	27	6	633	638	"Cell Biology;Genetics & Heredity"	Five hundred bulbs of Tulipa australis Link, and where possible the associated young flowers, have been analyzed cytogenetically in four natural populations collected from the Sierra Nevada of Spain. A majority of these were diploid (2n = 24), but a few triploids (3n = 36) were present in the population from the highest altitude. All the diploid plants from three of these populations were basic homozygotes with homomorphic bivalents. In one population, however, three types of plants were identified: homozygous standard plants (80%), plants heterozygous for a large supernumerary chromosome segment (19%), and plants homozygous for its same segment (1%). The segment was located terminally on the short arm of a submetacentric chromosome. It was heteropycnotic at meiotic prophase, showed dark C-banding at metaphase I, and was visible as a prominent heterochromatic chromocentre at interphase. The segment divided reductionally in a majority of anaphase I cells (88%), which means that chiasmata tend to be excluded from the arm carrying the segment. Seeds obtained from plants homozygous for the extra segment always carried one such segment. One-half of the seedlings of heterozygous plants are themselves heterozygous for the extra segment, while the other half lack the segment. Finally, 11% of the seeds from bulbs without a segment turned out to be segment heterozygotes. From these results, it is deduced that the extra segment is sexually transmitted in a Mendelian fashion and that it has little or no effect on male fertility and fecundity.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0008-4093 ER	 	"RUIZ REJON C; DEP GENETICA, FAC CIENCIAS, GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Russell,William H.;McBride,Joe R.;Carnell,Ky"	Influence of environmental factors on the regeneration of hardwood species on three streams in the Sierra Nevada.	Madrono	Madrono	2003	January-March 2003	50	1	21	27	"Developmental Biology;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	Regeneration of hardwood species on three streams in the northern Sierra Nevada was correlated with several environmental factors. The occurrence of seedlings of Salix lutea (yellow willow), Salix laevigata (red willow), and Alnus tenuifolia (mountain alder) were negatively correlated with canopy cover and litter depth, and positively correlated with solar radiation. All three species occurred more frequently on sandy soils where the stream channel was wide and the slope was relatively shallow. The occurrence of Populus fremontii (black cottonwood) seedlings was negatively correlated with canopy cover, and sandy soils, and positively correlated with distance from the watercourse and solar radiation. Acer macrophyllum (big leaf maple) and Cornus sericea (American dogwood) seedlings occurred under relatively dense canopy cover, in low light environments, but were limited to sandy soils and wide stream channels. Results indicate that the hardwood species that exist in riparian corridors within the Sierra Nevada mixed conifer forest type are variably reliant on conditions common to flood prone areas such as sandy mineral soils and a high light environment for regeneration.	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0024-9637 ER	 	"Russell, William H.; Biological Resources Division, Western Ecological Research Center, Golden Gate Field Station, USGS, Fort Cronkhite, Bldg 1063, Sausalito, CA, 94965, USA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Saint Girons,H.	The Systematics of Vipera-Latastei-Latastei and a Description of Vipera-Latastei-Gaditana New-Subspecies Reptilia Viperidae	Revue Suisse de Zoologie	 	1977	 	84	3	599	608	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Dermatology;Anatomy & Morphology"	A morphological study of the populations assigned to V. l. latastei revealed the existence of 2 distinct subspecies. The 1st, corresponding to the nominate subspecies, occupies the north, the center and the east of the Iberian Peninsula [Spain, Portugal], and extends southwards as far as the Sierra Nevada [Spain]. The 2nd subspecies V. l. gaditana is characterized by a smaller number of ventral scales (130.88 .+-. 4.41 instead of 141.31 .+-. 3.46) and is widely distributed in the southwest of the Iberian Peninsula, the Rif, the Middle Atlas [northern Africa] and the Algerian Tell. Although individuals from the Algerian Tell belong to the southern group, the intrapopulation variability of the samples from Alger and Annaba (Bone) is greater than that between samples from either Morocco or the southwest Iberian Peninsula, posing a taxonomic problem which cannot be resolved here due to the smallness of the sample size.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0035-418X ER	 	"SAINT GIRONS H; LAB EVOL ETRES ORG, UNIV PIERRE ET MARIE CURIE, 105 BLVD RASPAIL, 75006 PARIS, FR, FRANCE"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sainz Cantero,C. E.;Sanchez Ortega,A.;Alba Tercedor,J."	Distribution and Autoecology of Hydraenidae in the Sierra Nevada Spain Insecta Coleoptera	Boletin de la Asociacion Espanola de Entomologia	Bol.Asoc.Esp.Entomol.	1987	 	11	 	355	366	"Behavioral Sciences;Physiology;Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology"	After a monthly sampling during two annual cycles, in nine sampling stations distributed in differents streams from Sierra Nevada mountains (south of Spain), the distribution factors (temperature, conductivity, current speed, type of bed and vegetation), their statistical significance and phenology of nine species of Coleoptera, Hydraenidae were studied.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-8984 ER	 	"SAINZ CANTERO C E; DEPARTAMENTO DE BIOLOGIA ANIMAL, ECOLOGIA Y GENETICA, FACULTAD DE CIENCIAS, UNIVERSIDAD DE GRANADA, 18071-GRANADA, ESPANA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sainz-Cantero C E;Zamora-Munoz C;Alba-Tercedor J"	Aquatic Coleoptera from the Monachil River Sierra Nevada Granada Spain	Elytron (Barcelona)	 	1988	 	2	 	97	106	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Physiology"	After a seasonal sampling, carried out for one annual cycle, a list of 18 species [Elmis maugetii, Limnius opacus, L. volckmari, Helichus substriatus, Potamonectes sp., Oulimnius troglodytes, Hydraena minutissima, Deronectes sp., Dryops sp., Esolus sp., Gyrinus caspius, Helophorus glacialis, Hydraena pygmaea, H. exasperata, H. subdepressa, H. testacea, Ochthebius exculptus, and the subfamily Hydroporinae] is presented together with ecological data on their altitudinal distribution and phenology, as well as interactions among populations of Elmis maugetii, Limnius opacus and L. volckmari in the Sierra Nevada mountains in Southern Spain. Futhermore Hydraena (Haenydra) exasperata ORCHYMONT, 1936 is recorded for the first time in these mountains. All sampling localities are listed and characteristics of their habitats are provided.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0214-1353 ER	 	"SAINZ-CANTERO C E; DEP DE BIOLOGIA ANIMAL, ECOLOGIA Y GENETICA, FACULTAD DE CIENCIAS, UNIVERSID DE GRANADA, 18071 GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sainz-Cantero,C. E.;Alba-Tercedor,J."	Aquatic Adephaga from Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain) (Coleoptera: Haliplidae, Gyrinidae, Dytiscidae)	Boletin de la Asociacion Espanola de Entomologia	Bol.Asoc.Esp.Entomol.	1991	 	15	0	91	109	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Anatomy & Morphology"	After an integral study carried out on aquatic coleoptera in Sierra Nevada, 31 Adephaga species were recorded (eight are first records). Moreover additional notes on their ecology of each species are presented.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-8984 ER	 	Departamento de Biologia Animal Ecologia y Genetica, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Granada, 18071 Granada, Spain	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sainz-Cantero,C. E.;Alba-Tercedor,J."	Aquatic Polyphaga from Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain) (Coleoptera: Hydraenidae, Hydrophilidae, Elmidae, Dryopidae)	Boletin de la Asociacion Espanola de Entomologia	Bol.Asoc.Esp.Entomol.	1991	 	15	0	171	198	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Anatomy & Morphology"	46 species of aquatic Coleoptera Polyphaga, including 7 hitherto unlisted, are recorded in the Sierra Nevada (Southern Spain). together with new data concerning their distribution and ecology requirements.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-8984 ER	 	Dep. Biologia Animal Ecologia y Genetica, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Granada, 18071 Granada, Spain	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Sanchez-Castillo P M	Algae from High-Mountain Lagoons in the Sierra Nevada Granada Spain	Acta Botanica Malacitana	 	1988	 	13	 	21	52	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology"	A study was carried out on the specific composition of the phytoplankton from 16 high-mountain lagoons in the Sierra Nevada. The lagoons are situated on siliceous substrates at altitudes between 2500 and 3100 m. They are ice-free for 5 to 6 mos. a year, usually from June to October. Of the 149 taxa collected, 21 are Cyanophyceae, 2 are Dinophyceae, 8 are Euglenophyceae, 5 are Chrysophyceae, 51 are Diatomophyceae, 28 are Chlorophyceae and 34 are Zygophyceae. Eleven taxa were new records for the Spanish phycoflora. Eunotia pseudopectinalis, E. sudetica, Netrium oblongum var. curvatum and Actinotaenium adelochondrum var. kriegeri, all with an arctic-alpine distribution, were singled out for their biogeographical interest. Nostoc kihlmani, Meridion circulare, Cymbella minuta, Pediastrum boryanum, Cosmarium garrolense and Staurastrum hirsutum were the taxa with the widest distribution among the lagoons studied. Finally, a new combination was proposed: Eunotia pseudopectinalis var. vasconiensis [E. flexuosa var. vasconiensis].	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-9506 ER	 	"SANCHEZ-CASTILLO P M; DEPARTAMENTO DE BIOLOGIA VEGETAL, FACULTAD DE CIENCIAS, UNIVERSIDAD DE GRANADA, 18001 GRANADA, GRENADA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sanchez-Maranon,R. Delgado;Parraga,J.;Delgado,G."	Multivariate analysis in the quantitative evaluation of soils for reforestation in the Sierra Nevada, (southern Spain)	Geoderma	Geoderma	1996	 	69	03-Apr	233	248	"Biodiversity & Conservation;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Forestry;Nutrition & Dietetics;Agriculture"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0016-7061 ER	 	"Delgado, G.; Dep. Edafol. Quimica Agricola, Fac. Farm., Campus de Cartuja, Univ. de Granada, 18071 Granada, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Conference Proceedings	"Sanchez-Ortega a;Alba-Tercedor J"	The Life Cycle of Perla-Marginata and Dinocras-Cephalotes in Sierra Nevada Granada Spain Plecoptera Perlidae	 	 	1991	July 27-30, 1989	 	 	493	501	"Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences;Developmental Biology;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology;Anatomy & Morphology;Physiology;Reproductive Biology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	 	PT: B	 	Alba-Tercedor,J. and A. Sanchez-Ortega	"Overview and Strategies of Ephemeroptera and Plecoptera; Vith International Ephemeroptera Conference"	Granada, Spain, July 24-28, 1989 and the Xth International Symposium on Plecoptera, Granada, Spain	Sandhill Crane Press, Inc.	Gainesville, Florida, Usa. Illus				 	1-877743-08-9 ER	 	"SANCHEZ-ORTEGA A; DEPARTAMENTO DE BIOLOGIA ANIM, ECOLOGIA GENETICA, FACULTAD DE CIENCIAS, UNIVERSIDAD DE GRANADA, 18071 GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	"DT: Book; Meeting"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Sanchez-Ortega a;Alba-Tercedor J"	On the Nymphs of Isoperla-Nevada Aubert 1952 and Nemoura-Fulviceps Klapalek 1902 from the Sierra Nevada Spain Insecta Plecoptera	Boletin de la Asociacion Espanola de Entomologia	Bol.Asoc.Esp.Entomol.	1988	 	12	 	233	238	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Developmental Biology;Anatomy & Morphology"	New taxonomical characters for Isoperla nevada Aubert, 1952 are described and figured. Moreover the first description of the nymph of Nemoura fulviceps Klapalek, 1902 is presented. This represents the first record of N. fulviceps in Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain).	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-8984 ER	 	"SANCHEZ-ORTEGA A; DEPARTAMENTO DE BIOLOGIA ANIMAL, ECOLOGIA Y GENETICA ZOOLOGIA , FACULTAD DE CIENCIAS, UNIVERSIDAD DE GRANADA, 18071 GRANADA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Schippmann,U.	Brachypodium-Boissieri Nyman an Endemic Grass Species of Southern Spain	Lagascalia	 	1990	 	15	2	179	188	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Cell Biology;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Genetics & Heredity;Anatomy & Morphology"	Brachypodium boissieri Nyman is restricted to the mountainous zone of Sierra Nevada, Sierra Tejeda, Sierra de Almijara and Sierra de Cazulas (provinces of Granada and Malaga). The anatomical and morphological differences between B. boissieri and the closely related B. retusum are shown and chromosome numbers are presented.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-7708 ER	 	"SCHIPPMANN U; FORSCHUNGSINSTITUT SENCKENBERG, SENCKENGERGANLAGE 25, D-6000 FRANKFURT MAIN 1, FRG"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Schmidt-Koehl W	Butterfly Observations in Morocco Middle Atlas and in Southern Spain Sierra-Nevada in July August 1977 Insecta Lepidoptera	Mitteilungen der Entomologischen Gesellschaft Basel	 	1978	 	28	2	25	50	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1421-3397 ER	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Book, Whole	"Selga,D.;Simon,J. C.;Acon,M."	Variations and Characteristics of the Terrestrial Micro Arthropod Fauna in Sierra-Nevada Spain	 	 	1977	 	 	 	121	 	"Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Physiology;Agriculture ER"	 	PT: B	 		 	 	 	 				 	 	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Book	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Serve,L.	A New Species from the Sierra-Nevada Southern Spain Iberis-Embergeri-D New Species	Bulletin de la Societe Botanique de France	 	1971	 	117	05-Jun	283	292	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Anatomy & Morphology"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0037-8941 ER	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Shaverdo,H. V.	Revision of the nigrita-group of Hydroporus CLAIRVILLE, 1806 (Insecta: Coleoptera: Dytiscidae)	Annalen des Naturhistorischen Museums in Wien Serie B Botanik und Zoologie	 	2004	Apr-04	105B	April	217	263	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	The six species assigned to the nigrita-group of Hydroporus CLAIRVILLE, 1806 are revised. Hydroporus sabaudus FAUVEL is established as a valid name for the species which has been treated as H. nivalis HEER. Hydroporus nivalis is found to be a senior synonym of H. foveolatus HEER but for matters of stability a proposal for precedence of the name Hydroporus foveolatus over the name Hydroporus nivalis has been submitted to the Commission of Zoological Nomenclature. Hydroporus sabaudus sierranevadensis ssp.n. is described from the Sierra Nevada, Southern Spain. Hydroporus tibetanus ZAITZEV, erroneously attributed to the nigrita-group till now, is transferred to the acutangulus Polaris species complex. Descriptions, distributional data, and some bionomical notes are presented. The great variability of the main characters of the species is discussed. A key to all species of the nigritagroup is presented which will allow the separation of most specimens. The body outlines and aedeagi of the studied species are figured to show the variability of body shape, coloration, and shape of median lobe. Lectotypes are designated for the following nominal species: Hydroporus nigrita (F., 1792), H trivialis STEPHENS, 1828, H. glabellus THOMSON, 1867, H. subalpinus THOMSON, 187 1, H. monilicornis J.SAHLBERG, 1875, H. bisbiguttatus J.SAHLBERG, 1921, H. sabaudus FAUVEL, 1865, H. alticola SHARP, 1882, H nivalis var. scholzii KOLBE, 1899, H. kozlovskii ZAITZEV, 1927, H. nivalis HEER, 1839, H. foveolatus HEER, 1839, and H tibetanus ZAITZEV, 1953.	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0255-0105 ER	 	"Shaverdo, H. V.; Zweite Zool Abt, Nat Hist Museum, Burgring 7, A-1010, Vienna, Austria"	 	 	 	"DT: Article; LT: Taxonomic Review"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Skartveit,John;Haenni,Jean-Paul"	Three species of Bibionidae (Diptera) new to the fauna of Switzerland	Mitteilungen der Schweizerischen Entomologischen Gesellschaft	 	1997	 	70	01-Feb	29	33	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology"	Bibio siebkei MIK, Bibio fulvicollis GIMMERTHAL and Dilophus borealis SKARTVEIT are recorded for the first time from Switzerland. Some further records of Dilophus borealis from central and southern Europe are presented, the species being recorded for the first time from Spain and France. For each species, a short diagnosis and a figure of the male hypopygium are given.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0036-7575 ER	 	"Skartveit, John; Zoological Museum, Museplass 3, N-5007 Bergen, Norway"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Soriano,Ignasi	[On Pedicularis verticillata (Scrophulariaceae) of the Sierra Nevada mountains, Spain.]	ORSIS Organismes i Sistemes	 	2003	 	18	 	103	106	Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics	 	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0213-4039 ER	 	"Soriano, Ignasi; Centre Especial de Recerca de Biodiversitat Vegetal, Universitat de Barcelona, Diagonal, 645, 08028, Barcelona, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	Sobre la Pedicularis verticillata (SCROPHULARIACEAE) de Sierra Nevada.	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Stace,Clive	Higher and earlier	Entomologist's Record and Journal of Variation	Entomol.Rec.J.Var.	1992	 	104	11-Dec	326	327	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Anatomy & Morphology"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0013-8916 ER	 	Cringlee, Claybrooke Road, Ullesthorpe, Lutterworth, Leics. LE17 5AB, UK	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Steinmann,H.	A Revision of the Genus Aborolabis Dermaptera Carcinophoridae	EOS-Revista Espanola de Entomologia	 	1977	 	53	01-Apr	213	222	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology"	A key for identification of A. nepalensis comb. nov. (Anisolabis nepalensis Brindle 1974), A. percivina, A. kalaktangenis, A. angulifera, A. cerrobarjai sp. nov., A. mordex and A. mauritanica, and descriptions of these species are presented. The zoogeographic significance of the triangular process on the inner margin of the external parameres is discussed.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0013-9440 ER	 	"STEINMANN H; BUDAPEST, HUNG"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Subias,L. S.;Arillo,A."	Pluritrichoppia-Insolita New-Genus New-Species Acari Oribatida Oppiidae from the South of Spain	Redia	Redia	1989	 	72	1	251	258	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology;Physiology"	In this paper a new genus and a new species of oppiid mites from the South of Spain are described under the name of PLURITRICHOPPIA insolita gen. nov., sp. nov. Notogastral neotriquie is the most important character that appears for the first time among oppiid mites.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0370-4327 ER	 	"SUBIAS L S; DEP ZOOL, FACULTAD BIOL, UNIV COMPLUTENSE, MADRID, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Tarrier,Michel	Protection of the Sierra Nevada (Spain) habitats, Biosphere Reserve (UNESCO): The maximum level of destruction has been reached	Alexanor	Alexanor	1996	1996 (1997)	19	07-Aug	450	454	"Biodiversity & Conservation;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Government & Law"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0002-5208 ER	 	Casa Surya, Buzon 203, Mijas la Neuva, E-29650 Mijas, Spain	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Tercedor,J. A.	Ephemerella-Ikonomovi-Nevadensis New-Subspecies of Sierra-Nevada Spain Ephemeroptera Ephemerellidae	Boletin de la Asociacion Espanola de Entomologia	Bol.Asoc.Esp.Entomol.	1982	 	6	 	285	294	"Developmental Biology;Anatomy & Morphology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	The nymph of E. (Chitonophora) i. nevadensis ssp. nov. is described and illustrated.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-8984 ER	 	"TERCEDOR J A; DEP DE ZOOLOGIA, FACULTAD DE CIENCIAS, UNIV DE GRANADA, GRANADA"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Tierno de Figueroa,J. M.;Sanchez-Ortega,A."	The male drumming call of Isoperla nevada Aubert, 1952 (Plecoptera, Perlodidae)	Aquatic Insects	Aquat.Insects	1999	Jan., 1999	21	1	33	38	Communication	The male drumming call of Isoperla nevada is described for the first time. The call is composed of a variable number (mode = 3) of diphasic sequences. The first sequence is longer, and contains more beats than the following ones. The number of beats per second increases during phase I of each sequence. The time between phases is less than 0.03 seconds while the time between two sequences varies from 0.13 to 0.24 seconds. The call of I. nevada differs from the morphologically similar species I. grammatica (Poda, 1761), whose call has been previously studied by other authors. The call of I. nevada contains fewer diphasic sequences than I. grammatica and its first sequence is different from the following ones, while all of the sequences of I. grammatica are similar. These behavioural characters support the separation of both species. The male mating call of I. nevada can be considered to be a derived pattern of drumming, and one of the most complex known in Isoperla.	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0165-0424	 	"Tierno de Figueroa, J. M.; Dpto. Biologia Animal y Ecologia, Fac. Ciencias, Univ. Granada, 18071, Granada, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	10.1076/aqin.21.1.33.4543 ER	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Tierno De Figueroa,M.;Sanchez-Ortega,A.;Azzouz,M."	Preliminary data on the numeric evolution of captures of various Plecoptera species (Insecta, Plecoptera) in Sierra Nevada (Granada, Spain) throughout their flight period	Boletim da Sociedade Portuguesa de Entomologia	Bol.Soc.Port.Entomol.	1992	 	0	139	178	 	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Developmental Biology;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology;Physiology"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0870-7227 ER	 	Dep. Biol. Animal Ecol., Fac. Ciencias, Univ. Granada, 18071 Granada, Spain	 	 	 	"DT: Meeting; LT: Meeting Abstract"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Tinaut,A.	Teleutomyrmex-Kutteri New-Species a New Species from Sierra Nevada Granada Spain Hymenoptera Formicidae	Spixiana	Spixiana	1990	 	13	2	201	208	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology;Reproductive Biology"	This paper describes a new species for the genus Teleutomyrmex, based on the size of its hair on the epinotum and petiole and the male genital structure. This species is dedicated to the esteemed myrmecologist, Dr. H. Kutter.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0341-8391 ER	 	"TINAUT A; DEP BIOL ANIMAL, ECOL Y GENETICA, UNIV GRANADA, 18071 GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Valle,F.	Map of the Vegetation Series of the Sierra-Nevada Mountains Spain	Ecologia Mediterranea	 	1985	 	11	02-Mar	183	200	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences;Biodiversity & Conservation;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0153-8756 ER	 	"VALLE F; DEPARTEMENTO DE BOTANICA, FACULTAD DE CIENCAS, GRANADA, ESPANA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Van Den Berg,A. J. J.	The White Flowered European Sedum Species 2. Cyto Taxonomic Notes on Sedum-Album and Sedum-Gypsicolum	Proceedings of the Koninklijke Nederlandse Akademie van Wetenschappen Series C Biological and Medical Sciences	 	1982	 	85	4	677	689	"Biochemistry & Molecular Biology;Cell Biology;Genetics & Heredity;Anatomy & Morphology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	In S. album L. a polyploid series occurs with the basic chromosome number X = 17. In a collection of 227 plants from all parts of the distribution area of the species, the chromosome numbers 2n = 34, 51, 68, 102 and 136 were found. In S. album the morphological variation is not correlated with the differences in chromosome numbers. On the contrary, a more or less continuous morphological series occurs in this species within which a number of geographical races can be distinguished. The very small plants from Gotland (Sweden) are an extreme of this series. In the Baltic region plants with pale green leaves and yellow anthers occur which differ from the typical form in that they do not synthesize cyanidin. They have been described as var. pallens Hartm. and are classified here as forma pallens. Of all European Sedum species S. gypsicolum Boiss. et Reuter is the one which resembles S. album most closely and it also has the basic chromosome number X = 17. In 6 plants from the sierra Nevada (Spain) the chromosome numbers 2n = 68 and 102 were found. Since S. album and S. gypsicolum differ in a number of morphological characters and since a polyploid series occurs within both taxa they should be regarded as distinct species.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0023-3374 ER	 	"'T HART H; DEPARTMENT OF BIOSYSTEMATICS, RIJKSUNIVERSITEIT UTRECHT, NETHERLANDS"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Velasco,Jose Luis;Araujo,Rafael;Alvarez,Miguel;Colomer,Manuel;Baltanas,Angel"	Aportation to the limnological knowledge of eight mountain lakes and ponds in Asturias (Spain)	Boletin de la Real Sociedad Espanola de Historia Natural Seccion Biologica	 	1999	July 28, 1999	95	01-Feb	181	191	"Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Marine & Freshwater Biology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	Five lakes (Enol, La Ercina, Cerveriz, Calabazosa, Lago del Valle) and three ponds (Redonda, Cabeiro, La Mina) have been studied at altitutes ranging between 1.100-1.700 m in the Cantabric mountains (Northern Spain). Morphometric and physico-chemical features along with the composition of plankton, Molluscs and Ostracods are reported. Water mineralization of these water bodies is very low (maximal conductivity 170 muS.cm-1), bicarbonate and calcium being their main ionic contents which result from the lime watersheds. Cattle is likely to increase the eutrophic status of these lakes and ponds, such status being highest in Redonda and Cabeiro, followed by Cerveriz lake. 53 phytoplankton-, 33 rotifer-, 30 crustacean- (including 5 ostracods) and 7 mollusc species are reported. Greens, cryptophytes, dinoflagellates and diatoms dominate phytoplankton, whereas the rotifer Keratella cochlearis (Gosse, 1851), Asplanchna priodonta Gosse 1851, Filinia terminalis (Plate, 1886), Euchlanis dilatata Ehrenberg 1832, Polyarthra vulgaris Carlin 1943 and crustacean Chydorus sphaericus (Muller, 1776), Daphnia longispina (Muller, 1776), Alona quadrangularis (Muller, 1776), Cyclops abyssorum G. O. Sars, 1863 are zooplankton species more frequent. Molluscs Pisidium personatum Malm, 1855, P. subtruncatum Malm, 1855 and P. milium Held, 1836 and ostracods Heterocypris barbara (Gauthier and Brehm, 1928) and Plesiocypridopsis newtoni (Brady and Robertson, 1870) are new record for Asturias. Regarding plankton composition, these lakes are closer to those of the Pyrenees and Alps mountains as compared whit Sierra Nevada lakes in Southern Spain.	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0366-3272 ER	 	"Velasco, Jose Luis; Araujo, Rafael; Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales CSIC, 28006, Madrid, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Vivero,Jose Luis;Hernandez-Bermejo,J. Esteban;Ligero,Josefa Prados"	Conservation strategies and management guidelines for wild Prunus genetic resources in Andalusia, Spain	Genetic Resources and Crop Evolution	Genet.Resour.Crop Evol.	2001	October, 2001	48	5	533	546	"Agriculture;Genetics & Heredity"	"Six species of the genus Prunus occur in Andalusia. Matters regarding their ecology, ethnobotanical aspects and conservation are discussed, as well as knowledge about the germplasm of those species with greater economic importance and their degree of conservation, namely: P. avium, P. mahaleb and P. insititia. Various conservation measures are proposed for wild germplasm and for the germplasm of local varieties: a) conservation efforts should target the best populations, except in the case of P. avium and P. insititia, where every individual should be addressed, including both wild and local cultivars; b) the Dehesa del Camarate (Sierra Nevada) is proposed as an area for in situ germplasm conservation; c) the awareness of the importance of Prunus germplasm should be increased among forest workers, environmental managers and the public; d) some silvicultural techniques are proposed, such as mixed Prunus patches, hedge treatment, Z-tree selection at the early stages and the protection of root suckers; e) improved, selected P. avium and P. mahaleb germplasm should be used at highly productive sites since these two species can be cultivated as high value timber trees; f) some Prunus species can also provide profitable NTFPs in the region. Details regarding different collection areas are covered. Finally, some topics are recommended for scientific research. Three tables and a distribution map of Prunus species in Andalusia are included."	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	0925-9864 ER	 	"Ligero, Josefa Prados; The Botanic Garden of Cordoba, Avda. de Linneo s/n, 14004, Cordoba, Spain"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Weise,E.	The Species of Isomira Coleoptera Alleculidae of Middle Europe and Places Situated in the Mediterranean Sea	Entomologische Blaetter fuer Biologie und Systematik der Kaefer	 	1974	 	70	2	65	128	"Anatomy & Morphology;Reproductive Biology;Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0013-8835 ER	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Werner,R. G.	The Lichen Flora of the Betic-Rifa Cordillera Spain Phyto Geographic and Ecologic Study	Collectanea Botanica (Barcelona)	 	1979	 	11	 	409	471	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Anatomy & Morphology"	Phytogeographical and ecological studies were made of the lichen flora from the Morocco-Rif mountains (a prolongation of the Spanish Sierra Nevada) and lichenological affinities between these 2 ranges were discussed. New species [Lecidea (Biatora) brunneonigrescens, Lecanora(Aspicilia) tingitana and Verrucaria mauretanica ] and many others newly recorded for Morocco are described.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0010-0730 ER	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Wittmer,W.	Contribution to the Knowledge of the Palearctic Cantharidae and Malachiidae Coleoptera	Fragmenta Entomologica	Fragm.Entomol.	1974	 	10	1	1	20	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Anatomy & Morphology"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0429-288X ER	 	 	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	Zamora,R.	The Fruit Diet of Ring-Ouzels Turdus-Torquatus Wintering in the Sierra Nevada Southeast Spain	Alauda	Alauda	1990	 	58	1	67	70	"Behavioral Sciences;Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences;Environmental Sciences & Ecology;Nutrition & Dietetics;Reproductive Biology"	A total of 446 droppings of Ring-ouzels (Turdus torquatus) were obtained in October, November, February, and March in the high mountain scrubland of the Sierra Nevada (southeastern Spain). The Ring-ouzel feeds principally on fleshy fruits during autumn and winter. The most widespread and abundant berry is that of the juniper, Juniperus communis, which is also the one most often eaten by the Turdidae. The Ring-ouzel is thus responsible for the wide dispersal of its seeds which, moreover, would also determine plant abundance and distribution in the high mountains of the Sierra Nevada.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0002-4619 ER	 	"ZAMORA R; DEP BIOLOGIA ANIMAL ECOLOGIA GENETICA, FACULTAD CIENCIAS, UNIVERSIDAD GRANADA, 18001 GRANADA, SPAIN"	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Zamora,Regino;Gomez,Lorena;Gomez,Jose Maraa;Hodar,Jose Antonio;Baraza,Elena;Castro,Jorge"	Meta-analysis of the nurse effect of shrubs in reforestations in Mediterranean mountains.	Ecological Society of America Annual Meeting Abstracts	 	2002	 	87	 	455	 	"Biodiversity & Conservation;Forestry;Science & Technology - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology ER"	 	PT: J ME: print	 		 	 	 	 				 	 	 	"Zamora, Regino; Gomez, Lorena; Gomez, Jose Maraa; Hodar, Jose Antonio; Baraza, Elena; Castro, Jorge; University of Granada, Granada, Spain"	 	 	 	"DT: Meeting; LT: Meeting Abstract"	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Journal Article	"Zamora-Munoz,Carmen;Alba-Tercedor,Javier"	First record of Halesus tessellatus Rambur, 1842 (Trichoptera: Limnephilidae) in the Iberian Peninsula	Boletin de la Asociacion Espanola de Entomologia	Bol.Asoc.Esp.Entomol.	1995	 	19	03-Apr	200	201	"Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics;Environmental Sciences & Ecology"	 	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	0210-8984 ER	 	Dep. Biol. Anim. Ecol., Fac. Ciencias, Univ. Granada, 18071 Granada, Spain	 	 	 	DT: Article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 