Reference Type	Authors, Primary	Title Primary	Periodical Full	Periodical Abbrev	Pub Year	Pub Date Free From	Volume	Issue	Start Page	Other Pages	Keywords	Abstract	Notes	Personal Notes	Authors, Secondary	Title Secondary	Edition	Publisher	Place Of Publication	Authors, Tertiary	Authors, Quaternary	Authors, Quinary	Title, Tertiary	ISSN/ISBN	Availability	Author/Address	Accession Number	Language	Classification	Sub file/Database	Original Foreign Title	Links	URL	DOI	PMID	PMCID	Call Number	Database	Data Source	Identifying Phrase	Retrieved Date	Shortened Title	User 1	User 2	User 3	User 4	User 5	User 6	User 7	User 8	User 9	User 10	User 11	User 12	User 13	User 14	User 15Journal Article	"Palací_n-Arce,A.;Mariscal-Arcas,M.;Monteagudo,C.;Ferníçndez de Alba-Síçnchez,M. C.;Gí_mez-Puerto,J. R.;Ruiz-Verdeja,C.;Beas-Jimí©nez,J. D.;Olea-Serrano,F."	Analysis of the drinks that contribute to the hydration of Andalusian sportspeople	Revista Andaluza de Medicina del Deporte	 	2013	3	6	1	12	16	"Sportspeople;Hydration;Diet;Rehabilitation;Sport Sciences ER"	Objectives. To estimate the water balance in a healthy population of sportspeople from Southern Spain and determine the sources of their fluid intake, evaluating the contribution of different types of drink and comparing the results by sex and province of residence. Methods. Three hundred eighty-six sportspeople (231 males, 152 females) were enrolled in the study. A questionnaire was administered to calculate nutrient intake through diet and physical activity, and anthropometric measures were taken according to ISAK standards. SPSS-15 was used for data analyses. Results. Fruit juice, tap water, bottled water, processed fruit juice, carbonated drinks, and isotonic drinks comprised 96% of the total water intake. Simple sugar consumption represented 4.44% of daily calorie intake. Significant differences were found between sexes and between professionals and amateurs. The amount of drinks consumed varied as a function of the quality of the drinking water, which significantly differed among the eight Andalusian provinces. Conclusion. This study population did not fully meet fluid intake recommendations, compliance with hydration recommendations varied as a function of the sex and the amateur or professional status of these sportspeople. The pattern of drinks consumption also differed according to their place of residence.	PT: J	 		 	 	 	 				 	1888-7546	 	"[Ferníçndez de Alba-Síçnchez, M.C.; Gí_mez-Puerto, J.R.; Ruiz-Verdeja, C.; Beas-Jimí©nez, J.D.] Junta de Andalucí_a, Spain. [Mariscal-Arcas, M.] Universidad de Murcia, Spain. [Palací_n-Arce, A.; Mariscal-Arcas, M.; Monteagudo, C.; Olea-Serrano, F.] Universidad de Granada, Spain."	 	 	 	DT: research-article	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Web Of Knowledge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 